1-Up Mushrooms (alternatively 1 up Mushrooms, 1UP Mushrooms, or 1-UP Mushrooms), also called Extra Life Mushrooms, are green mushrooms that grant the player an extra life. They are usually the rarest mushrooms, but they can still be found in almost every game a Super Mushroom has appeared in and even some games it has not. 1-Up Mushrooms are usually found in hidden blocks or in risky places for the player. They always grant the player a positive effect when collected.

The 1-Up Mushrooms first appear in Super Mario Bros. In this game, they have green spots on a yellowish-orange mushroom cap. (In underground levels they have teal spots on a brown cap, as they share the same color palette as the green enemies like the Koopa Troopas.) They are usually found in Hidden Blocks (with the first one being found in World 1-1 before the first pit) or in areas where Mario must risk his life to acquire one. They are rather uncommon in this game; the ones in the worlds' first levels can only be earned by grabbing all the coins of the previous world's third course. (An exception is that only 21 of the 23 coins in World 1-3 are needed to make the 1-Up Mushroom in World 2-1 appear. This rule does not apply in Super Mario Bros. Deluxe.) In World 1 and World 8, however, there are two hidden 1-Up Mushrooms, more than Mario can find than any other world in the game.
If the player acquires 10 or more lives, the screen displays a crown and a symbol instead of a number.

The 1-Up Mushroom, along with the Super Mushroom, reappears in Super Mario Bros.: The Lost Levels. Due to this game being a direct sequel with very few graphic changes, nothing changed over the behavior of the 1-Up Mushroom. However, like the Super Mushroom and the newly introduced Poison Mushroom, these mushrooms now have eyes, which continue to be present in most installments afterwards.

While 1-Up Mushrooms are present in Super Mario Bros. 2 and Super Mario Advance, these versions are also simply known as 1 UPs and look very different from the usual green-capped mushrooms. Found by pulling up a plant containing one or throwing three items at a bubble containing a 1 UP (in Super Mario Advance only), they have a solid red cap with "1 UP" written on their side, rather than having eyes. Picking them up grants an extra life.

1-Up Mushrooms are items in Super Mario Bros. 3 and its remake. Their behavior has not changed much, but they now have green-spotted white caps (light blue in artillery levels) (which become the standardized white-spotted green caps in remakes), though in original releases, an entirely white 1-Up Mushroom can be found in World 6-3 due to sharing its palette with a beanstalk. Extra lives are also regularly obtained via the card system, as well as the Spade Panels. Mega ? Blocks in bonus rooms can also give three 1-Up Mushrooms.
Super Mario Advance 4: Super Mario Bros. 3 allows one to scan 1-Up Mushroom cards to gain extra lives as well, ranging from one to 100 extra lives. An unreleased switch card could also make every block with 1-Up Mushrooms give three of them instead (with the Mega ? Blocks giving nine of them), and the blue switch card turns all 1-Up Mushrooms in normal-sized blocks into 3-Up Moons when activated.

In Super Mario World and Super Mario World: Super Mario Advance 2, 1-Up Mushrooms (also called Extra 1-Up Mushrooms or Extra Mario Mushrooms), with the now-standard white-spotted green cap, behave as they do in Super Mario Bros. 3, but can be found in a more varied range of places. Fishin' Lakitus carry them as bait for Mario, and when Mario acquires it, the Lakitu will chase after Mario, throwing Spinies after him. 1-Up Mushrooms also appear out of eggs when Mario is already riding a Yoshi and hits a ? Block containing an egg. 1-Up Mushrooms are the main feature of 1-Up Chambers, where the player character can jump at the ? Blocks in a certain order on a row, which is always randomized, for a 1-Up Mushroom. If jumped at in an incorrect order, the player does not earn any 1-Up Mushroom for that row, since every ? Block becomes empty. 1-Up Mushrooms can also be earned in the bonus game by lining up Super Mushroom, Fire Flower, and Super Star icons: Every three-of-a-kind match will give him a 1-Up Mushroom, and he can win up to eight of them if all the icons match. There is another item in Super Mario World that can grant Mario lives — the 3-Up Moon, which gives Mario three extra lives instead of one, but is even rarer than the 1-Up Mushroom and is only found in hidden areas, such as behind the Giant Gate in some levels.

A flying winged golden 1-Up Mushroom exists unused in this game.

Appearing differently from its previous design, 1UP Mushrooms in this game are green with yellow spots and are 2D. They are also the only mushrooms that can be obtained in Super Mario 64. They can be found in a number of places, such as after going through or collecting a ring of coins. 1UP Mushrooms are also found in hidden areas or on top of poles. Most will seemingly slide away from Mario, while others follow him until he collects it. Others are static, and Mario can simply run up to the mushroom and collect it. A 1UP Mushroom can also be found in the room with the Jolly Roger Bay painting. Also, three 1UP Mushrooms can be found at the top of the Mushroom Castle if the player uses the cannon to reach there. In some stages, some 1UP Mushrooms may appear in a small field of flowers. Touching or punching certain butterflies may also spawn 1UP Mushrooms, though others spawn homing bombs instead. Others appear in some yellow blocks in some missions.
In Super Mario 64 DS, 1UP Mushrooms are the most common mushroom, as Mushrooms were added in this version, and they share their design from Mario Kart: Double Dash!! They share the same role in this game and appear in the same places, though a few have been removed from locations in the original game or act differently from what their original counterparts acted like. Like in the original game, some will try to run away from the player, others follow the player until they get a life, and others are also static in one area. Unlike in the original game, the word "1-UP" will appear after collecting the mushroom.

1-Up Mushrooms reappear in Super Mario Sunshine. They look very similar to their appearance  in Super Mario 64. They are the only type of Mushroom that can be acquired in this game. Aside from gaining an extra life, Mario's health meter and FLUDD's water tank will also be completely refilled upon collection. Some 1-Up Mushrooms try to escape from Mario after they're found, while others can be collected easily. Though many 1-Up Mushroom drops are specific to certain levels, certain global interactions will always cause a 1-Up Mushroom to appear: stomping 3 overturned Strollin' Stus or their variants in one jump, Ground Pounding 3 overturned Strollin' Stus or their variants simultaneously, stomping a blue Bullet Bill, spraying a Plurp after they have already dropped 10 coins, or if an NPC would reward Mario with a Blue Coin that he has already collected.

Little has changed in the behavior of these mushrooms in New Super Mario Bros. when compared to Super Mario Bros. However, they can be obtained by collecting a Mega Mushroom and destroying a certain number of objects in the player's path. When this action is completed, a number of 1-Up Mushrooms will fall from the sky, determined by the amount in the meter at the top of the screen (up to five 1-Up Mushrooms can be earned this way). They can also be obtained by getting all the Red Coins from Red Rings when in Fire or Shell form.
In Green Toad Houses, Mario or Luigi must hit blocks with randomized cards in them. There are the following cards:

1-Up Mushrooms act very similar in Super Mario Galaxy when compared to the games in the past. However, they are found in other places such as the bottom of planets or next to black holes. When the player also touches all notes activated by a ? Coin, a 1-Up Mushroom will often appear. The player can also get a 1-Up Mushroom from Lumalee for 30 Star Bits on certain galaxies, particularly before some boss fights. Five 1-Up Mushrooms can be found on the Comet Observatory: one inside a crate in the Garage, one under the staircase to the Kitchen, one above the green platform circling around the Beacon under the Bedroom, one under the platform with the Gate, and one above the Garden. Also, when Mario receives a letter from Princess Peach via the Mailtoad, five 1-Up Mushrooms will be included with the letter. When playing as Luigi, 20 1-Ups will be included instead of five.

1-Up Mushrooms act in a very similar manner in New Super Mario Bros. Wii when compared to New Super Mario Bros. 1-Up Mushrooms are pretty rare in the levels, and they are usually hidden well. They can also be obtained by getting all the Red Coins from Red Rings when in Fire, Ice, Propeller, or Penguin form. The Green Toad Houses return with a new minigame, 1-up Blast, in which the player must hop into cannons and shoot the cannon at balloons with numbers ranging from one to four. If the player pops these balloons, the number of lives shown on them will be received. Additionally, landing on eight Para-Beetles or Heavy Para-Beetles in a row will award a 1-Up Mushroom.

1-Up Mushrooms also appear in Super Mario Galaxy's sequel, Super Mario Galaxy 2. They have the same benefit like in the predecessor — each mushroom gives Mario an extra life. Teleporters can send Mario to areas where he earn three to five 1-Up Mushrooms by defeating all the enemies present in a short time. The notes that Mario collect often make 1-Up Mushrooms appear, usually three. Mario can also obtain 1-Up Mushrooms from Lumalee, on Starship Mario, or from Chance Cubes, with some Chance Cubes having the chance of rewarding up to five 1-Up Mushrooms.

1-Up Mushrooms return in Super Mario 3D Land, functioning identically as before. A different version of the 1-Up sound will play when a 1-Up Mushroom is collected if the player has 999 or 1109 lives.

1-Up Mushrooms also appear in New Super Mario Bros. 2. They are replaced by Gold Mushrooms in the Coin Rush mode.

1-Up Mushrooms are items in New Super Mario Bros. U, New Super Luigi U, and their Nintendo Switch version. They give the player an extra life, except in the Coin Battle mode, where collecting a 1-Up Mushroom gives the player five coins. Exclusively in the reissue, playing as Toadette replaces 1-Up Mushrooms within blocks with 3-Up Moons.

1-Up Mushrooms are items in Super Mario 3D World and Super Mario 3D World + Bowser's Fury. They have the same effects as before. 1-Up Mushrooms do not appear in Bowser's Fury mode in the latter version.

1-Up Mushrooms appear in Super Mario Maker and Super Mario Maker for Nintendo 3DS as a placeable course element, giving the player an extra life only if they are playing a world in Coursebot, the 10 Mario Challenge, and the 100 Mario Challenge. In the 10 Mario Challenge or 100 Mario Challenge, up to three 1-Up Mushrooms can be obtained and added to a counter in the top left where Mario receives the mushrooms he collected upon clearing the course.

1-Up Mushrooms reappear in Super Mario Maker 2 as a placeable course element. It acts the exact same as in the previous game, but its behavior in Story Mode and Super Worlds is the same as it was in Coursebot, and its behavior in Endless Challenge is the same as it was in the 10 Mario Challenge and 100 Mario Challenge. If the night effect is applied and the ground theme is selected, they transform into Rotten Mushrooms.

1-Up Mushrooms appeared in Super Mario Bros. 35 in the same locations as in Super Mario Bros. Since there were no lives in this game, the mushrooms gave 20 coins instead, the price to use the Item Roulette once. The Hidden Blocks containing 1-Up Mushrooms were always present, without having to meet any unlocking conditions, and would reappear if the same course was played more than once in the same match.

1-Up Mushrooms reappear in Super Mario Bros. Wonder, functioning the same as they do in past Super Mario games.
Prince Florian gives the player five 1-Up Mushrooms after receiving a Game Over. Flower coins can be used to buy 1-Up Mushrooms in all Poplin Shops except the secret Poplin Shop in Sunbaked Desert. There are three different sets that contain a varying amount of 1-Up Mushrooms: A single one, a set of five, and a set of 99, which cost 5, 20, and 300 flower coins respectively. The set of 99 is only available after clearing The Final Battle! Bowser's Rage Stage.

In Hotel Mario, 1-Up Mushrooms are referred to as Toads, an artifact of the character of the same name having its role in pre-release builds. If Fire Mario opens a door that normally hides a Super Mushroom, it will instead hold the identical-looking Toad. A Toad flees faster than a Super Mushroom, and will instead reward the player with an extra life, same as in past games.

In Mario Golf for Game Boy Color and Mario Golf: Advance Tour, 1-Up Mushrooms are rare hidden items that can be found by examining specific objects. Obtaining one increases the player's level by one.

In the Mario & Luigi series, the 1-Up Mushroom revives Mario and Luigi with half of their HP if either Mario or Luigi lose all of their HP in battle.
There is also a stronger variant called a 1-Up Super that appears in Mario & Luigi: Superstar Saga and Mario & Luigi: Partners in Time. They are very expensive and are named after the 1-Up Mushroom and the Super Mushroom. When used, it restores all HP (and BP in Mario & Luigi: Superstar Saga) to a fainted Mario brother, whereas the normal 1-Up Mushroom only revives them with half of their maximum HP. It is known as the 1-Up Deluxe in Mario & Luigi: Bowser's Inside Story and Mario & Luigi: Dream Team. Unlike the first game's 1-Up Supers, Mario & Luigi: Bowser's Inside Story's 1-Up Deluxes do not restore SP, the equivalent of BP in the first and fourth game of the series. In Mario & Luigi: Paper Jam, its name is shortened to 1-Up DX.
In Mario & Luigi: Partners in Time, if Mario and Luigi knock out a Shroobsworth, Intern Shroobs can resurrect their fallen master with their own 1-Up Mushrooms.
Mario & Luigi: Paper Jam also introduces the Double 1-Up Mushroom, which revives two fallen party members, but with less HP than a normal 1-Up Mushroom.

In Mario Kart: Double Dash!!, a 1-Up Mushroom appears as an emblem in the front of Toadette's Kart. This kart is supposed to be a recolor of the Toad Kart, which is blue and sports a regular Mushroom as an emblem. The 1-Up Mushroom does not appear as Toadette's emblem in later games, however, likely owing to Toadette's face being used as her emblem throughout many spin-offs. A 1-Up Mushroom represents the Mushroom Bridge track logo as well.
Although they do not appear as items in Mario Kart Wii, in the track Coconut Mall, there is a shop in a hidden shortcut that is selling 1-Up Mushrooms along with other classic Mario items. The sponsor 1-Up Coffee uses a 1-Up Mushroom on its logo and references it in the name.
In Mario Kart 8, Mario Kart 8 Deluxe and Mario Kart Tour, the sponsors 1-Up Fuel and 1-Up Racing reference the 1-Up Mushroom, while the 1-Up Mushroom Car Insurance Group uses them both in its name and imagery.

1-Up Mushrooms are items in Dance Dance Revolution: Mario Mix. They can be bought at any shop in Story Mode for 100 coins, and doing so gives the player an extra life.

1-Up Mushrooms are a stadium feature in Mario Superstar Baseball. They appear in Toy Field only, where obtaining one through a slot allows the player character to bat again.

In Super Smash Bros. Brawl, the 1-Up Mushroom makes a cameo appearance as a sticker that can be equipped in the Subspace Emissary to Mario, Luigi, Peach, Yoshi, and Bowser. In Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS / Wii U, the 1-Up Mushroom appears as a trophy.

1-Up Mushrooms are items in Fortune Street. They can be obtained through the Memory Block minigame, and by doing so, the 1-Up Mushroom increases all of the player's shop values by 10% each.

1-Up Mushrooms are not interactable items, though they are referenced in the form of the 1-Up Mushroom trophy, which serves as the first cup in the Star Open tournament in Mario Tennis Open.

In Paper Mario: Sticker Star, there are stickers called Big 1-UP and Big Shiny 1-UP, which restore a small portion of Mario's HP for 10 turns.

In Paper Mario: Color Splash, there are 1-Up Mushroom cards that restore all of Mario's paint in battle instead of healing Mario. They can be bought at Prisma Cardware for 300 coins each, and found in ? Blocks in The Emerald Circus and Black Bowser's Castle. Roy will confiscate all of Mario's 1-Up Mushroom cards at the start of his battle.
1-Up Mushrooms proper also appear in their sprite forms in the Super Mario Bros. 3-styled level in the Green Energy Plant. They are found in ? Blocks, although they only restore a portion of Mario's paint.

1-Up Mushrooms return in Paper Mario: The Origami King, where their function is now closer to that of the mainline games, as well as the Life Shroom from the first three installments. If Mario is defeated in battle, the 1-Up will instantly revive him, but unlike the Life Shroom, it will restore all of his HP as opposed to just 5 or 10. Mario can only carry one of these at a time, and they are automatically equipped upon being collected, as signified by the 1-Up Mushroom icon by Mario's HP counter. One is given to Mario for free the first time he stops by the Battle Lab (unlocked by unfolding the dog-like Toad in Picnic Road), and afterward, more can be purchased at the item shop in Toad Town if Mario does not already have one in his inventory.
1-Up Mushrooms can be used in battle at any point in the game, save for the last two phases of the final fight against King Olly, as well as the boss rematches in the Battle Lab.

1-Up Mushrooms also reappear in Captain Toad: Treasure Tracker and its Nintendo Switch and Nintendo 3DS ports, serving the same purpose as in other games.

In Puzzle & Dragons: Super Mario Bros. Edition, the player will lose a life in a course when their team's total HP goes to zero. The player is then given an option to continue through the course or go back to the world map. Continuing through a course uses 1-Up Mushrooms, costing one per continue. When players lose all their lives, they go back to the world map and are automatically given four 1-Up Mushrooms. The player's maximum amount of 1-Up Mushrooms is 10.
1-Up Mushrooms can be found by opening ? Blocks in certain courses and can be won in the Lucky ? Blocks game at Toad Houses. The player may also earn them in a course by getting 12 combos.

A 1-Up Mushroom is a space in Nintendo Monopoly. It replaces the Income Tax space. When a player lands on this space, they have to pay either 10% of their total assets or $200 in the 2006 version (just $200 in the 2010 version).
A 1-Up Mushroom is a recurring furniture item in the Animal Crossing series. In all of its appearances, when the 1-Up Mushroom is interacted with, it plays the extra life sound. Animal Crossing: Wild World is the first game to feature the 1-Up mushroom item, and its designed is based on its sprite from Super Mario Bros. Another 1-Up Mushroom furniture item appears in Animal Crossing: New Leaf, now depicting its contemporary design, but unlike the previous game and the Super Mario series, "1-Up" no longer floats above the 1-Up Mushroom when it is interacted with. A third 1-Up Mushroom item appears in Animal Crossing: New Horizons.
In the Super Mario Mash-up in Minecraft, brown Mushrooms are replaced by 1-Up Mushrooms.
In Mario + Rabbids Kingdom Battle, artwork of a 1-Up Mushroom can be found on a poster in the laboratory in the introductory cutscene.
In the fifteenth Maximus Cup in Tetris 99, a 1-Up Mushroom from Paper Mario: The Origami King makes a cameo as the progress bar icon for unlocking the theme based on that game.

* - The "1UP" part of the Japanese name has multiple reading (furigana) styles in official media, which include: ワンアップ (Wan Appu), ワンナップ (Wannappu), and no furigana for "1" and アップ (Appu) for "UP".