Boos (originally known as "Boo" Diddlys, a nod to American R&B singer Bo Diddley, and later Boo Buddies or simply Ghosts) are recurring ghost enemies that first appear in Super Mario Bros. 3. They are a type of white spherical ghost with menacing and normally open mouths. They are known for their large tongues and small stubby arms. However, the most distinctive characteristic of the Boos is their shy personality, as they cover their faces when someone looks directly at them, but then uncover and move after the character when their back is turned; this exact behavior is used by Mumbies in the Kirby series.
Shigeru Miyamoto got the idea for Boo from the wife of his coworker and close friend Takashi Tezuka, as she is shy but one day got very angry with him for coming home late from work.

"Boo" Diddlys appear in Super Mario Bros. 3. They are first encountered in World 2-Fortress. A "Boo" Diddly shields its face if looked at, but chases the player character if not looked at. "Boo" Diddlys can be defeated only from either the effects of a Hammer Suit or a Starman, or from a Koopa shell. "Boo" Diddlys have a variant, Stretches "Boo" Diddlys are depicted with either a dark-blue or dark-red outline in the Family Computer and Nintendo Entertainment System version, depending on the level.

"Boo" Buddies (called "Boo" Diddlys earlier in development appear in Super Mario World and its reissue. They are encountered in the Ghost House levels. "Boo" Buddies behave identically but move slower than before, a consistency retained throughout the Super Mario series. "Boo" Buddies change their face very briefly if looked at for long enough. "Boo" Buddies appear to have multiple tails. Groups of them make a variety of facial expressions. More varieties are introduced in the game, including Boo Buddy Blocks, Boo Buddy Snakes, Boo Crews, Circling Boo Buddies, Eeries, Disappearing Boo Buddies, and the Big Boo. A "Boo" Buddy is defeated only from the effects of Super Stars or being hit by a Grab Block.

Boo Buddies appear in Super Mario Land 2: 6 Golden Coins. Compared to other games, they move in a slower, wave-like pattern toward Mario. Boo Buddies in this game are found in the Pumpkin Zone. A thrown Green Shell can defeat it. A variant named Ghost Goombas also appears in this game.

Boos (also called Baby Boos) appear in Super Mario 64 and Super Mario 64 DS. They use their design from Mario Party 4 in the latter version. Boos are encountered in the courtyard of Peach's Castle and in Big Boo's Haunt. Big Boos are recurring mini-bosses in the latter location, as well as a different Big Boo in the Big Boo Battle stage in the remake only. When Boos are looked at, they become partially visible, but are fully opaque otherwise and follow the player character. Boos take away two units of health on contact. The Boos in the courtyard hold a Yellow Coin each, and those in Big Boo's Haunt each have a Blue Coin; the remake changes the former instance to Red Coins until the player collects all eight and then the Power Star. Boos are defeated from either a punch, a kick, a Pound the Ground attack, or Luigi's spin jump in the remake only. Boos cannot be defeated by Yoshi in the remake, and it is spit out if Yoshi attempts to do so. A line of dialogue displays each time a Boo is defeated in the first mission of Big Boo's Haunt. A Boo appears in the hallway of the Mushroom Castle after twelve Stars are collected, or eight in the remake. By selecting the sixth mission of Big Boo's Haunt in the remake directly, a Boo wearing a Luigi's cap appears in the stage.

Boos appear in Super Mario Bros. Deluxe. They are competitors in the "You VS. Boo" mode, competing to reach the flagpole before the player can. Boos do not damage the player character on contact. If the Boo is defeated within a time frame, it flies away, being replaced by a faster green Boo, then by a faster red Boo, and lastly a Black Boo with a yellow outline. The Black Boo travels in a way mimicking the player's best time.

Boos return in Super Mario Sunshine. They have a different design consisting of drooping eyelids, blue circles around their black pupils, and long, coiled tails, due to being made of goop. They are encountered in Sirena Beach only, inside of Hotel Delfino. Two varieties of Boo appear, Pink Boos and Sleepy Boos, and the boss fought below Hotel Delfino is King Boo. Boos move around in slow, swooping motions. They do not react if looked at. There are Boos that are mostly invisible, besides a distorted visual effect, but spraying them with water makes them become increasingly visible. The invisible Boos take on disguises such as Yellow Coins or Blue Coins, differentiated only from not spinning at a constant pace, or Shadow Mario, differentiated by appearing lighter colored, lacking the magic brush, and the Shadow Mario theme not playing. If a disguised Boo is approached, it laughs and bumps into Mario, unless it has been sprayed prior.

Boos appear in New Super Mario Bros. They are encountered in Ghost Houses and World 8-1. They act the same as in Super Mario Bros. 3, though the ways of defeating them include a Shell, a Starman, a Mega Mushroom, or a Blue Shell. The game introduces Balloon Boos, which inhale air to inflate themselves, and Broozers, which are boxers.

Boos appear in Super Mario Galaxy. They are encountered in the Ghostly Galaxy, the Bigmouth Galaxy (in underwater areas), the Deep Dark Galaxy, and the Sand Spiral Galaxy only. Boos become transparent when the player character looks at them, but are opaque and go after the player character if they are not looking. A Boo can be defeated mainly from any ray of light, or when touched by Rainbow Mario. Boos can be spun off course from a spin attack. A large Boo in Deep Dark Galaxy has a Power Star in it during the secret mission. Varieties that appear include Atomic Boo and the debuting Bomb Boos, and there is a Boo character who is raced, the Spooky Speedster. One of the power-ups, Boo Mario, has the player character become a Boo, retaining only his face and cap. Boos are attracted to Boo Mario and follow him. If a Boo hits Boo Mario, he does not take damage but does lose the power-up.
Captain Toad also indirectly suggests that Boos eat people, as he worried that Luigi might have been eaten by ghosts.

Boos return in New Super Mario Bros. Wii. They are depicted with a blue glow. Boos are encountered in Ghost Houses only. They behave identically as in New Super Mario Bros. Varieties that appear include Big Boos, Broozers, and Circling Boo Buddies. Every Ghost House on the world map has a Boo who watches the player character and laughs whenever he either enters or is kicked out from losing a life. Once the level is cleared, the Boo only covers its face henceforth. Boos are defeated only from the effects of a Star.

Boos appear in Super Mario Galaxy 2. They behave identically as in Super Mario Galaxy. They are encountered in Haunty Halls Galaxy, Boo Moon Galaxy, Battle Belt Galaxy, and Slimy Spring Galaxy, the latter two having the underwater type. Besides Bomb Boos returning, two variants make their debut: Octoboos, a cross between an Octoomba and Boo, and Mega Boos, larger than even Big Boos.

Boos appear in Super Mario 3D Land. They behave similarly as before, but disappear briefly if hit by a tail whip from Tanooki Mario or one of Fire Mario's fireballs. Their laugh is similar as in Super Mario 64. Aside from Big Boos returning, two more variants are introduced: Tail Boos, which have a tanooki tail, and Peepas, which move in a set pattern.

Boos return in New Super Mario Bros. 2. They are encountered in Ghost Houses. There are Boos in World 4-Ghost House that push the wall either left or right, and they are not shy of being looked at. Boos otherwise are the same as in New Super Mario Bros. Wii, except they can be defeated from the effects of either a Star or Gold Flower. Aside from Peepas returning, the game introduces the giant Boohemoths and Gold Boos, which Boos transform into while a Gold Ring during the effects of a Gold Ring. 

Boos appear in New Super Mario Bros. U and its port. They are the same as before, though Baby Yoshis can defeat Boos. Big Boos and Circling Boo Buddies both also return. Boos appear in an Enemy Course in the haunted area of Soda Jungle, where a Flying ? Block with the Super Star is required to defeat them.

Boos appear in Super Mario 3D World and its port. Their only differences are cosmetic, being more transparent, having a blueish glow like in New Super Mario Bros. Wii and its sequels unless stared at, in which case they have a reddish glow while emitting steam. Big Boos and Peepas also return.

Boos are course elements in Super Mario Maker, its port, and Super Mario Maker 2. They have newly designed sprites for the Super Mario Bros. style, but are otherwise the same as in other entries of the Super Mario series. Boos can be inserted into Bill Blasters, Blocks, a Koopa Clown Car, tracks, or Warp Pipes. Boos can be shaken to become Boo Buddies or dragged on to platforms to become Stretches. Applying a Super Mushroom to a Boo changes it into a Big Boo, while giving it wings gives it faster movement. Boos in Koopa Clown Cars affect the vehicle to stop and close its eyes when looked at and sneak up on the player while they are not looking.

Boos appear in Super Mario Run. They are encountered in Ghost House levels. Boos cover their eyes and float up and down while looked at, including if they are close to the player's vertical position, and turn to look at the player character. Boos otherwise follow in a quick, wavy motion. Boos are defeated by either jumping backward over them using a Backflip Block or a Wall Jump. The pink P Switch of certain levels defeat every Boo on-screen. Boos drop Keys, Coins, or Color coins upon defeat, with the item being slightly visible before their defeat. Boos in the level Dark and Stormy are defeated whenever lightning strikes happen. Boo cannot leveled. Besides Boos, Stretches also return.
There is a Boo Statue in Kingdom Builder, which has an interaction where it briefly covers its eyes. 

Boos are enemies in Super Mario Bros. Wonder. They are designed similarly to their older artworks but still stick their tongues out. Boos behave identically as before, and are defeated upon contact with rays of light, like in Super Mario Galaxy. Besides Boos, King Boo appears during one of the Wonder Effects.

Boos appear infrequently in The Adventures of Super Mario Bros. 3. They are depicted with red eyes and yellow teeth. "Boo Diddlys" in the episode "Reign Storm" assist King Koopa by terrorizing the Mushroom Shopping Mall. 
Two Boo Diddlys appear in "Misadventures in Babysitting", where they are found in the dungeon sneaking behind and spooking Junior. The same Boos are scared off by Luigi who makes a scary face at them. They are seen once more fleeing from lava caused by Kooky.

Ghosts, as they are called, appear in the episodes "Ghosts 'R' Us," "The Night Before Cave Christmas," and "The Yoshi Shuffle" of Super Mario World. They are designed much differently than in the previous show, being depicted similarly to their in-game sprite. "Ghosts 'R' Us" features a group of ghosts and a Big Boo chasing Yoshi through Wizenheimer's haunted house. "The Night Before Cave Christmas" includes ghosts that scare Yoshi away. "The Yoshi Shuffle" includes ghosts in the audience at the start of the episode.

In Koopa Capers, a Boo confronts Luigi if he decides to simply look through a keyhole in a fortress door, instead of barging through it. If Luigi decides to run away from it immediately, he will successfully escape, but if he decides to stand his ground, the Boo will chase him onto some floating blocks after he dodges its attack. Making a beeline for the door after mounting the blocks will allow the Boo to catch Luigi, but doing evasive techniques will allow him to escape it. When he begins his descent into the Magma Pit, Luigi will hear a Boo behind him, which causes him to pick up the pace, and escape it.
Illustrations of a Boo are used in puzzles in Dinosaur Dilemma and Flown the Koopa, though none appear in the actual stories.

In the interactive OVA Super Mario World: Mario to Yoshi no Bōken Land, Boos appear in a Ghost House that Mario, Luigi, and Yoshi are passing through. A Boo starts following Luigi, who is in the back, but every time he turns around, it disappears. Finally, he quickly does a double take, and turns just in time to see it re-materialize. He panics and Boos start swarming the group. Mario grabs a candle and lights it, which repels the Boos, and one drops a key they need to progress.

Boo Buddies are objects in Yoshi. They are one of six types of objects to fall on the play field. Boo Buddies are depicted similarly as in Super Mario World.

Ghosts are items in "2 Player" mode and background elements of Ghost Valley 1 Ghost Valley 2, and Ghost Valley 3 in Super Mario Kart. Using a Ghost item makes the user become transparent temporarily as the Ghost steals any item available from an opponent. Ghosts in the background laugh as the player character drives by.

Boos (named Ghost Bonuses on one occasion) are items as well as background elements of Banshee Boardwalk and Rainbow Road in Mario Kart 64. Boos can be obtained by racers in one of the top two positions. When used, a Boo makes the user both invisible and invincible temporarily as it selects an opponent to steal an item from, unless the racers have no items. A player character affected by a Boo can pass any items, course obstacles, and racers by going through them.

Boos, also named "ghosts", are items, background characters in Boo Lake, and obstacles in Broken Pier in Mario Kart: Super Circuit. When used as an item, the Boo makes the user invisible for about five seconds and slows down the leading racer. A CPU can now use a Boo to potentially steal the player's item and coins. The transparency effect lasts for five seconds. The Boos in Boo Lake hold candles to guide player characters, while the Boos on Broken Pier take the coins

Boos make a cameo in Mario Kart: Double Dash!!. They are visible in portraits within the battle course Luigi's Mansion. King Boo has a much larger role, being a playable character.

Boos are items in Mario Kart Arcade GP, Mario Kart Arcade GP 2, and Mario Kart Arcade GP DX. A Boo slows whomever it hits temporarily. The item has a variation titled Triple Boo.

Boos, named Boo Hoo in British English, are items, background characters in N64 Banshee Boardwalk, and cameo in portraits in Luigi's Mansion in Mario Kart DS. When used, a Boo makes the user partly invisible while stealing an item from the nearest racer. Using a Boo item does not slow the user while on offroad surfaces. Boos are obtainable by racers between 3rd to 7th place. The Boos in N64 Banshee Boardwalk only let out a laugh as a player character drives by.

Boos are background characters in the course SNES Ghost Valley 2 and cameo in Bowser's Castle in Mario Kart Wii. In the former, they only laugh as racers drive by before disappearing eventually, while in the latter, artwork of Boo and Dry Bones from Mario Party 7 is shown. King Boo has a much larger role again as a playable character.

Boos are background characters of the course DS Luigi's Mansion and spectators on Toad Circuit and N64 Luigi Raceway in Mario Kart 7. The Boo portraits in DS Luigi's Mansion replace every portrait ghost portrait, and they push against their paintings as player characters drive nearby.

Boos are obstacles in the course Twisted Mansion in Mario Kart 8 and Mario Kart 8 Deluxe as well as items in the latter. The Boos near the gliding section of Twisted Mansion can be landed on, and the course also has Hammer Knights towards the end. Boos also float around in GCN Luigi's Mansion in Mario Kart 8 Deluxe and GBA Boo Lake in the Mario Kart 8 Deluxe – Booster Course Pass, replacing candle Boos from the original iteration in the latter course.
As items, Boos steal an item from a random opponent in front of the user, even if they are under invincibility effects. They can no longer be used to take off-road shortcuts. If there is no item to steal, the Boo gives the user a Mushroom. Only one Boo can be used on a course at once, excluding if an opponent is still under invisibility effects. A Boo can steal any timed or multiple usage item, except for a Crazy Eight, Piranha Plant, or Bullet Bill, and the duration or usage is not carried over to the player character.

Boos are non-playable characters in Mario Kart Tour. They are encountered in SNES Ghost Valley 1, SNES Ghost Valley 2, GBA Boo Lake, DS Luigi's Mansion, and RMX Ghost Valley 1, behaving identically as before. Wooden cutouts of Boos also appear in the Ghost Valley courses and DS Luigi's Mansion. In every Halloween Tour since 2020, the 2021 Autumn Tour and the Battle Tour, Jack-o'-lanterns are scattered throughout the courses, some of which had Boo faces. King Boo returns as a playable character. A glider known as the Boo Masks, based on Boos, is the signature glider of Peach (Yukata).

Boos are obstacles in the course Boo Fortress in Mario Kart Live: Home Circuit. They frighten any player who hits them.

Boos are opponents in Yoshi's Cookie. They are one of the opponents ranked on the easy difficulty. Eeries and Fishin' Boos both return.

Boos are antagonists in Super Mario Adventures. A horde of them attack Mario and Luigi after the two are tricked into entering a haunted house. The Boos and a Big Boo trap the Mario Bros. but are held at bay from being stared at. The Boos continue going after a nearly exhausted Mario as he drags Luigi. The Boos and Big Boo find Mario dressed as a psychiatrist with Luigi as his nurse after barging in. The Boos and the Big Boo are reformed by Mario and Luigi after some discussion, and it is revealed that the Boos were mean since they were bullied. The Boos and Big Boo lastly lead Mario, Luigi, and Yoshi out of the haunted house, waving goodbye to them. Boos are also present during Toadstool's wedding.

While Boos do not physically appear in the 1993 Super Mario Bros. film, a sign saying "NOW PLAYING BOO DIDLEY"[sic] can be seen in Dinohattan.

Boos (misnamed "Big Boo" in the English manual) are enemies in Yoshi's Safari, where they are encountered only in Ghost Mansion. Unlike most enemies in the game that can be shot with the Super Scope to be defeated, shooting a Boo stops it in its tracks. While stunned, Yoshi can then run into it to defeat it. Defeating a Boo adds 500 points to the player's score (1,000 in Hard Mode), the highest amount of points earned from regular enemies. A Big Boo serves as the boss for the level.

Boos are enemies in the Battle Game of the Super Mario All-Stars's Super Mario Bros. 3 remake. They replace fireballs.

Boos (misnamed "Big Boo" in the English manual) are enemies in Mario Clash. Boos can become transparent and therefore invulnerable, but while opaque, Boos are vulnerable to being defeated by a Turtle Shell. Boos are referred to by feminine pronouns in localized manuals.

Boo Buddies are enemies in Hotel Mario. Besides behaving similarly as in the platforming games, Boos wander diagonally while the player character is in an elevator. Some other Boos are normally transparent and wander in a similar manner, regardless of where the player character is looking, and sometimes become visible and quickly charge at him.

Boo Diddly is one of the pictures in the "Early Picross" stage in level 6C in Mario's Picross.

Boos are enemies in Super Mario World 2: Yoshi's Island and its port. They are first encountered in World 2. Boos can be defeated only by looking away and making an egg bounce off of a wall after it is thrown, hitting the ghost in the face. Kamek turns one Big Boo into Bigger Boo, which serves as a mini boss and grows in size every time he is hit by an egg. The game introduces two variants: Boo Balloons, which yield items when they pop, and Boo Man Bluffs, blindfolded Boos that rely to noise to locate the player character.
Boos appear in both sequels, Yoshi's Island DS and Yoshi's New Island, behaving identically as in Super Mario World 2: Yoshi's Island and being able to be defeated in the same way as before. In Yoshi's Island DS, there is also a Boo-like midboss in Hector the Reflector. Boos in Yoshi's New Island first appear in Beware the Boo Brigade and retain their laugh from Super Mario 64.

Boos return during the events of Super Mario RPG: Legend of the Seven Stars and its remake. In the original game, the English translation erroneously calls them "The Big Boo", whereas the remake simply calls them Boos. In the Japanese version, they are, in fact, referred to as Teresa as they are in other games. These Boos, like other Boos that appear in previous games, hide behind their arms when stared at. However, some Boos teleport around the room, attempting to scare Mario and his friends. Boos live in Kero Sewers along with many other ghouls, including Hobgoblins and Shadows. Often, these three undead monsters will assist each other in battle. Boos have no physical defense, making them extremely weak enemies (for reference, a Goomba is the weakest enemy encountered and it has three defense points). However, Boos make up for their lack of defense with high evasion, meaning that most attacks against Boos will miss. In battle, Boos command powerful lightning magic, including the attacks Lightning Orb and Bolt. Boos also know the special attack Scream, which cuts a party member's attack and defense in half. When not using magic, Boos approach one of Mario's party members and make a face, damaging that character. In this game, there is also a stronger Boo variation called High Boos, which are the same size as their normal counterparts but have blue tongues, similar to the first appearance of King Boo. The only true appearance of a Big Boo in this game is the one used in Bowser's Terrorize attack. One Boo lives in Monstro Town as part of the Three Musty Fears.

Boos appear in some of the Super Mario-kun comics. A Boo appears on the cover of volume 16, which is based on Super Mario 64. Alongside it, Eyerok, a Bob-omb, and Bowser can be seen. Throughout the comic, they appear, too. Their role in the comic is similar to their role in the game, where they are enemies to Mario and attempt to attack him. Lady Bow, a notable Boo, appears in a couple of the Paper Mario-based issues. These issues are 25 and 27. Lady Bow appears on the cover of the twenty-fifth issue along with many of Mario's other partners, including Goombario, Kooper, Eldstar, and Twink. Besides appearing on the cover, she appears throughout the comic. Her role in the comic mimics her role in the game. Lady Bow reappears on the cover of the twenty-seventh issue and in the comic. Like in issue 25, Lady Bow's role in the comic is similar to her appearance in the game, where she helps Mario. In a Super Mario Galaxy-based issue, Boo Mario appears on the cover along with more of Mario's transformations.

In Mario Net Quest, a Boo using its Super Mario 64 design is one of the obstacles that can pop out of the floor tiles. It is the strongest enemy in the game, making the player lose 1500 points if they click on it.

Boos appear in Yoshi's Story. They are encountered in the stage Ghost Castle. Boos do not act differently, although they are slightly bigger. Several other Boos variants are encountered in the level, including Block Boo, Blindfold Boo, and Little Boos. Two variations are encountered earlier on in Jelly Pipe, including Jelly Ghosts and Big & Little Boos.
The normal Boo is mistakenly called a Big Boo in the Nintendo Power guide.

Boo Buddies are enemies in the Modern version of Vermin in Game & Watch Gallery 2. They are encountered either in groups of two or just one. Boo Buddies do not move when looked at.

Boos are enemies in the Modern versions of Donkey Kong 3 and Mario's Cement Factory, as well as the boxing glove of Big Boo in the Modern Boxing, in Game & Watch Gallery 4. The Boo in Donkey Kong 3 slowly approaches Mario or Donkey Kong while their backs are turned, scaring the latter to earn the player points, or scaring the former to give the player a miss. Boos in the Modern Mario's Cement Factory fly into the two containers on the second floor, clogging them up.

Boo has been a major character in the Mario Party series, from being a thief for hire to being a playable character.

Boos are non-playable characters in Mario Party. They are encountered in the minigames Pedal Power and Running of the Bulb, and are a shape featured in Crazy Cutter. Boos are on every board map except Peach's Birthday Cake, and they provide the player character with the option stealing either a number of coins from an opponent for free or a Star for 50 coins, on their behalf. A Boo is one of the characters to congratulate the victor at the end of Luigi's Engine Room. A Boo voice can be mimicked by a Talking Parrot.

Boos return in Mario Party 2. On boards, they function similarly as before. Their role is also integrated into the Boo Bell item, which summons a Boo. Boo now charges five coins for stealing coins, of which it can take up to thirty of. If the Boo tries to steal Coins, the opponent can fight it off by pressing the A button quickly. Additionally, the Boo can only steal a maximum of 30 coins or a maximum of one Star. A Boo appears in the minigame Skateboard Scamper, going after the player characters, and in Day at the Races as one of the competitors.

Boos are non-playable characters in Mario Party 3. One is partnered with Yoshi by default in Duel Mode Partners; it counterattacks an opponent (except Thwomps) to deliver equal damage, and does this to Chain Chomp only if it is directly in front. Boos are features on every board, behaving identically as in the previous two games. They are part of the returning Boo Bell item once more. Boos appear in the minigames Curtain Call, Stacked Deck, Three Door Monty, and Crowd Cover; two portraits of a Boo appear in Locked Out. Boos have a unique role in Waluigi's Island, where they present two paths to the player character upon being encountered: one of them is rigged and leads to the start, while the other allows the player character to continue along.

Boos are represented as characters and species in Mario Party 4. In both cases, this is the first game to give them a design that they retained in most appearances since. One of the Boos is the host of Boo's Haunted Bash, as well as the fourth host of the Reversal of Fortune. A different Boo is playable in Beach Volley Folly. Boos appear in Long Claw of the Law, possibly as characters to obtain. The host of Boo's Haunted Bash wears a wizard's hat and cape. Other Boos appear in Boo's Haunted Bash: one owns the Item Shop; another owns the Mystery Train, giving rides to the Boneyard if a Red Boo is not in its presence; one has the player character press one of the keys of the Horn of Plenty to get one of three randomly chosen items; and one has to press the correct key at the right time until the end of the side game to get a certain amount of Coins. Boos appear on every board, stealing coins and Stars for the player at the Boo House similarly to previous entries of the Mario Party series.

Boo is a playable character in Mario Party 5. It is partnered with Koopa Kid by default. Boo's previous role on the boards is fulfilled by Chain Chomp.

Boo is a playable character in Mario Party 6. Because of this, Red Boos take the role of the Boo species, even taking their role in Towering Treetop and Castaway Bay at nighttime by allowing player characters to steal coins and stars from opponents.

Boos are non-playable characters in Mario Party Advance. Four of them haunt Boo Cemetery. They mention a crime when Shroomlock appears to assist them, shortly after the player's arrival. At the mention of a theft, the Boos worriedly ask for help to find the golden Boo statue, which they consider a symbol of their friendship. The Boos find that there are four of them instead of the usual three. When the Boo with a slightly moveset and rhythm is selected by the player, the false Boo is revealed to be Koopa Kid, who escapes, leaving behind the statue, and the Boos give the player the Predictotron as a reward. The Boos are said to haunt Horror Condo regularly in the epilogue.
Boos appear in the minigames Boo-Bye, alongside Red Boos and Blue Boos; Spooky Spike, serving volleyballs to the player character; and Floor It!, as possible passengers to take to the appropriate floor. The Porta-Gust Gaddget involves sucking Boos into a vacuum.

Boo is a playable character in Mario Party 7. He is partnered with Dry Bones. Red Boos have similar roles as in Mario Party 6 since Boo is playable. Boo's special orb, shared with Dry Bones, is the Magic Orb, which doubles their dice roll and grants temporary invisibility and invulnerability to traps for the next two turns.

Boo is a playable character in Mario Party 8. He has Dry Bones as a partner again. Red Boos take the role of the Boo species once more. King Boo hosts one of the boards, King Boo's Haunted Hideaway.

Boos are non-playable characters featured in the minigames Boo Tag and Peek-a-Boo in Mario Party DS. A Boo tags a player character in Boo Tag, and player characters try to pass it over to opponents, since the character tagged for the least amount of time is the winner. A variety of Boos appear in Peek-a-Boo, wearing different hats and appearing in a variety of colors like red, blue, green, and yellow. Teams compete to find more wanted Boos more than the opposing side.

Boos are featured in the board Boo's Horror Castle and in the boss minigame King Boo's Puzzle Attack in Mario Party 9. There are Boo portraits in Boo's Horror Castle from which a Boo emerges when passed, following behind the player characters by three spaces after each turn. If a Boo is on the same space as the captain, they lose half of their Mini Stars. Boos are sent out by King Boo in King Boo's Puzzle Attack when he has lost at least half of his health. Only one Boo is present at a time, and it stuns the cursor of a player character on contact.

Boo is a playable character in Mario Party: Island Tour. It holds up a Mushroom in its artwork.

Boos are non-playable characters in Mario Party 10. A Boo appears in the board Haunted Trail, where by landing on a certain area, Boo comes to steal five Mini Stars from a player character with every turn until it either passed to a different opponent from a Boo Space or driven towards a Streetlight. Boos appear in the minigames Boo Burglars, as enemies to examine, and Balloon Blast Bash, in the form of a balloon. Several Boos are in the background of Luigi Board.

Boos are non-playable characters in mode Boo's Block Party and in the minigames Haunted Hallways and House of Boos in Mario Party: Star Rush. When a Boo amiibo is used in Boo's Block Party, four Boos are displayed in the background, two on each screen. Boo can be used in the Mario Shuffle mode if its amiibo is scanned.

Boos are non-playable characters in the returning minigames Slot Trot and Jigsaw Jumble and part of the Boo Bell item in Minigame Match in Mario Party: The Top 100.

Boo is a playable character in Super Mario Party. Its Boo Dice Block consists of two of each -2 coins, 5, and 7.

Boos are non-playable characters in every board and in the minigames Roll Call and Crazy Cutters in Mario Party Superstars. In boards, Boos steal either coins or stars from an opponent, like in the first three entries of the Mario Party series.

In Super Mario Party Jamboree, Boo returns as a playable character and a board element, retaining the latter's function from Mario Party Superstars. This is the first game that Boo appears in a playable and non-playable capacity, unlike other games that used other characters for stealing functionalities. If the playable Boo meets the non-playable Boo, the latter will say "Wah! It's like looking into a mirror..." and if the latter steals from the former, the latter will say, "Kinda weird, but fun!"

Boos are supporting characters in the Nintendo 64 version of Mario Golf. They indicate the wind direction in relation to the camera angle. "Boo" is one of the names that can appear on the scoreboard. A Boo is the basis of the design of hole 2 of Mario's Star. Boos are depicted in artwork associated with Boo Valley.

Boo is an unlockable playable character in Mario Golf: Toadstool Tour. Besides this, a Boo indicates the wind direction like before. Boos are obstacles in Bowser Badlands, affecting the trajectory of balls hit through them. Two Boos carry a sign and float across the screen slowly if the player delays with their swing; the signs usually describe gameplay tips, but some are taunts.

Boo is a playable character in Mario Golf: World Tour. The wind direction and speed is represented by a blowing cloud instead of a Boo. Boos and King Boo are seen floating in the sky in Hole 4 of Bowser's Castle. 

Boo is a playable character in Mario Golf: Super Rush. Boo is billed a Spin character, having a higher spin stat than the other characters. Its Special Shot is Mischief Twister, which involves several Boos embedding themselves into Boo's golf ball before it swings and later haunting any other balls nearby to force a curved trajectory in their shot gauge. Boo's Special Dash is the Carousel Dash, in which it is circled and carried forward by Boo Buddies. Boo is not penalized for crossing bodies of water or lava, since it can float, but it does deplete the stamina gauge. Boo appears in Golf Adventure mode as part of the rookie class with the player’s Mii, Toadette, and Chargin’ Chuck. Boo has an variation with a visor available that is unlocked for playing in Ranked Match.

Boo is a playable character in the Nintendo 64 version of Mario Tennis. He is billed a tricky character, like with Paratroopa. The handheld version includes a Boo in the Boo Blast minigame instead, where the goal is to hit Boos, and Boos appear in the audience at Peach's Castle.

Boo is also playable in Mario Power Tennis, which also provides it a different voice. When he wins a championship, Mario and Luigi would come out with the trophy and Boo would be missing. They look around and the trophy would start to float. Boo then appears under it to Luigi's relief as Mario laughs in amusement. The Mario Bros. themselves are then surrounded and levitated by multiple other Boos as the main Boo flies up to the screen and holds the trophy. Boo's taunt is to wave his racket while laughing. Boo's offensive power shot is the Boo Blast and defensive power shot is the Boo Brigade Return.

Boo is a playable character in Mario Tennis Open and Mario Tennis: Ultra Smash, both billing it a Tricky character.

Boo is a playable character in Mario Tennis Aces. It is billed a Tricky character. There is a co-op challenge titled "Boo Hunt," which can be played to unlock alternate blue, green, and purple visor costumes for Boo, costing 2,500, 10,000, and 20,000 coins, respectively. The challenge involves hitting Boos for coins.

Boos appear in every game in the Paper Mario series, where they are usually found in ghost houses. In the first three Paper Mario games, the Boos appear with a design similar to Bigger Boo from Super Mario World 2: Yoshi's Island. In the latter three games, they use their modern appearance from Mario Party 4 and onward.

Boos appear in Paper Mario as friendly but tricky characters. White Boos live in Boo's Mansion, and tan Boos live at Gusty Gulch. Their leader is Lady Bow, who lives in Boo's Mansion along with Bootler.
At first, Boos were being eaten by Tubba Blubba. Some Boos tried attacking the monster to save their friends, but they failed because of Tubba Blubba's "Invincibility". Seeking help from Mario, they captured Skolar, the Star Spirit Mario was trying to save, in order to have Mario help them.
In the game, when Mario arrives at Boo's Mansion, Bootler tells him to get to the third floor. The Boos have prepared some puzzles for him under the order of Lady Bow to test him. One puzzle is for Boos to form a rotary circle, throw an item several times and ask Mario to guess who is holding the item. The first time he opens a door a big Boo appears on the screen. In the eastern room of the second floor Boos holding a Record play this trick. In the western room of the second floor, a Boo is guarding a chest box with a Weight in it. Mario plays the Record to lure the Boo away and uses the Weight on the droplight of the mansion to open the western door on the first floor. Boos in the basement hide in a big chest box in the basement. When Mario opens the chest box, they play the puzzle with Super Boots. After Mario gets them, he is able to get Boo's Portrait with which he is able to get to the third floor. There, Lady Bow asks Mario to help the Boos to defeat Tubba Blubba as a condition to free Skolar, and joins Mario's party to assist him. 
A Boo by the name of Igor also has a shop in the basement, but he will not sell until after Lady Bow joins the party.
In addition, a Boo appears after Mario gets the Super Boots, and tells him how to get the Star Pieces underground. Additionally, some Boos are flying in the sky who can be seen out of the windows. When Mario is about to set off, two white Boos appear to open the gate to Gusty Gulch under the command of Bow.
In Gusty Gulch, upon Tubba Blubba's arrival, the Boos hide except for Stanley, who is too late and gets caught and eaten by Tubba Blubba.
In the basement of Tubba Blubba's Castle, a brown Boo tells Mario not to fight Tubba Blubba until he finds his weak point. According to his word, he sneaked into the castle to look for the weak point. After Mario gets Yakkey, some tan Boos appear in front of Tubba Blubba's Castle and, seeing Mario and Bow get out and Tubba Blubba chasing, help the team by blocking the door.
After Tubba Blubba is defeated, the Boos he has eaten are saved, and Bootler releases Skolar as promised. Boos rejoice, and the background music in Boo's Mansion is replaced with a cheerful one. The Boos at Gusty Gulch write Lady Bow an admiration letter, which the player can read at the Toad Town Post Office. They also begin to talk about a female Boo called Victoria.
After Mario defeats Bowser, two Boos come to Peach's Castle to see the party, one white and one brown. The white one says he comes to see Lady Bow in her finery. He thinks that Bow is prettier than Princess Peach. The brown one says that he is going to have a wedding ceremony after the party. In the end-of-game parade, three white Boos along with Bootler are carrying Tubba Blubba's body.

Boos return in Paper Mario: The Thousand-Year Door and its Nintendo Switch remake as friendly characters as well as enemies for the first time in the series. Some Boos such as Lahla and Peeka in Rogueport can be seen running shops and various casino games.
Enemy Boos are found in Creepy Steeple and levels 21-29 of the Pit of 100 Trials. When Mario first enters the steeple there is only one Boo in the room who says that he misses his friends. He will let Mario through only one door (blocking him from using any other doors), where he finds a chest. When he opens it, 200 Boos fly out. The last Boo asks Mario "How many Boos came out of that chest?" If Mario answers correctly the Boo will give him an Ultra Shroom. If Mario is wrong the Boo will give him one coin. Upon returning to the main room, the first Boo is still there. He asks if Mario is going to be mean to him. If Mario answers "No", a bunch of Boos (the same ones from the treasure chest) will start flying around the main room, attempting to swarm Mario. If successful, they will throw Mario out of the Steeple, exactly like the Sentinels in Tubba Blubba's Castle. If Mario Spin Attacks them several times, they merge into an Atomic Boo. Once the Atomic Boo is defeated (releasing a Lucky Start badge), Mario can fight Boos in other parts of the Steeple. Even before defeating the Atomic Boo, Boos can still be found, but only when accompanying Swoopers.
The original Creepy Steeple Boo sends an e-mail to Mario that thanks him for freeing his friends, despite the fact that they attacked him. He signs the letter "The Creepy Steeple Boo". More Boos can be found in the Pit of 100 Trials. In this game, Boos attack by becoming invisible and getting close to Mario or the partner, then becoming visible and making a glare at them, causing 3 damage. However, if Mario or his allies gets lucky in battle, the Boo who tried to attack Mario and his partner will be tired out. The game also introduces a more powerful sub-species, the Dark Boo, which can be found in Poshley Sanctum.
Boos can also appear as members of the audience, where they can throw items onto the stage and randomly turn a character in the battle invisible for one turn.
In the remake, the Boos use their modern voice clips. Additionally, the Creepy Steeple Boo can be later found in the hidden room containing the Cookbook. When spoken to, he will quiz Mario again with three questions about various parts of the game, and will reward Mario with an item if the latter answers all three questions correctly. This can be done multiple times, each with its own trio of questions.

Outside of battle, Goombella can use Tattle only on a Boo found in the foyer of Creepy Steeple after Mario releases the 200 Boos.

Boos return as enemies in Super Paper Mario. In this game, they turn invisible if Mario looks at them, but they turn visible and chase him if he is not looking at them, similar to their behavior in Super Mario 64. To defeat them, the player must approach them from the back and then attack them. Additionally, the Flipside Arcade houses a Boo themed shooting game, Mansion Patrol. This game has the player shooting Boos, including Dark Boos and occasionally Atomic Boos, to score points. A Toad frequently appears to give power-ups, as long as the player saves him from his Boo captor. Lady Bow also makes three cameos in this game.

Boos reappear in Paper Mario: Sticker Star. They only appear in World 4-3: The Enigmansion. Mario must use the Book of Sealing, given by a Toad, to seal away every Boo that has escaped. In battle, Boos can make themselves disappear and can slap Mario or they can go up to Mario and scare him by making a scary face. They are able to make Mario dizzy in this game with their scare attack preventing him from using any of his defensive/dodging stickers. The attack is determined by the sound the Boo makes when it disappears.
Among the normal Boos, there is one golden Boo that drops several Coins after Mario defeats it, which can be found in the safe. This Boo attacks exactly like the normal ones. Another notable Boo is one that is crumpled, which is found in a trash can. In battle, it only has 1 HP and cannot attack. Additionally, a group of eighty-two Boos called a Boo Stack also appears. Once all the Boos get returned to the book and it is placed in its rightful spot, Kamek appears and turns all the captured Boos into the mini boss, Big Boo. After defeating the mini-boss, the Boos are put to rest once again and the mansion is restored to its former state. Boos can no longer be fought at this point.

Boos return in Paper Mario: Color Splash as enemies who can be fought within the parallel world at Vortex Island, Lighthouse Island and Fortune Island. By the time they are first encountered, Mario can instantly defeat them with a hammer First Strike without entering a battle. In battle, they attack by either hitting Mario or scaring him. They can disappear while in battle, causing all attacks to miss until they reappear. Outside of battle, if one is stared at too long, it will disappear, and then reappear behind Mario. A Boo appears as an NPC in Redpepper Crater, where it is in a hot spring. A Boo 10-Stack variant also appears.

Origami Boos appear as enemies in Paper Mario: The Origami King, first encountered in the Scorching Sandpaper Desert, but only at night; after Mario has explored the Temple of Shrooms and put the sun back in the sky, they are replaced by Koopa Paratroopas. In battle, Boos will turn invisible right before Mario manipulates the arena, forcing him to memorize their positions. However, they will reveal themselves if they are hit by a Toad's thrown object or shortly before time runs out. In addition, much larger Paper Macho Boos appear in the desert at night, replaced by Paper Macho Koopa Paratroopas by day. A Paper Macho Boo is also featured as one of the seven opponents on Scuffle Island.

Boos are enemies in Luigi's Mansion and its remake. This is the first appearance of King Boo, the main antagonist as well as leader of the 50 Boos; of the Boos, 15 of them are smaller ones that make up the portrait ghost Boolossus. Boos appear in rooms even while the lights are on, unlike with other ghosts. When a Boo is attacked, it usually flees, but some twirl into Luigi to cause damage.

Boos are enemies in Luigi's Mansion: Dark Moon. There are a total of 32 Boos, all serving King Boo, who returns as the main antagonist; ten of the Boos merge into the Big Boo fought in the Treacherous Mansion. The regular Boos all have names that play on "Boo," like in the previous game. Every mission has a Boo hidden in an invisible object that can be revealed only from using the Dark-Light Device. Once all five Boos are caught in a mansion, a bonus mission for it is unlocked. Boos can create Spirit Balls, which make objects invisible, and appear from certain ones only after Luigi has vacuumed all of them in. A Boo is captured by pulling back on its tongue using the Poltergust 5000 and releasing it by pressing , damaging the Boo as it bounces around the room. When it reaches 0 HP, the Boo can be forced into the Poltergust 5000 when attached to the nozzle and shoved inside by Luigi. All captured Boos are located in the Boo Canister in the Vault, each being sent down there after Luigi returns to the Bunker from a mission.

Boos are enemies in Luigi's Mansion 3. Like in previous entries, their names often include "Boo" in it. King Boo returns as the main antagonist. There is a Boo to catch on every floor except the Master Suite, and a Boo appears on a floor randomly once Luigi has retrieved the elevator button of that floor. Whenever a Boo is in the room next the player characters, Gooigi vibrates, as well as the player's controller. One Boo can be located with each Boo Finder. The music is different in a room with a Boo, which is in the object that vibrates the strongest. The Boo launches a swarm of bats at Luigi if he uncovers the wrong object before fleeing into a different room. A Boo attacks by either spinning towards Luigi to deduct 20 HP or by throwing a bomb at him. When revealed, the Boo has to be caught before Luigi can leave the room. Boos are caught the same way as in Luigi's Mansion: Dark Moon, though every Boo now has 20 HP.

In the Super Smash Bros. series, Boos mostly appear in the form of collectible items. In Super Smash Bros. Melee, a Boo appears as a collectible trophy. In Super Smash Bros. Brawl, there is another trophy of Boo, as well as a sticker depicting its artwork from Mario Tennis. In both Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS and Super Smash Bros. for Wii U, Boos once again received their own collectible trophy; furthermore, Super Smash Bros. for Wii U gave one an item in Smash Tour, where using it allows the player to begin a battle while invincible. In Super Smash Bros. Ultimate, there is a Novice-class Neutral-type primary spirit of a Boo, using its artwork from New Super Mario Bros. U, and it can be enhanced to King Boo at level 99. In World of Light, the Boo spirit appears in the Dracula's Castle sub-world of the Dark Realm. The spirit battle takes place on the Mushroom Kingdom U stage, with an invisible grayscale Kirby as the puppet fighter.
Boos appear in the background of the Luigi's Mansion stage in Super Smash Bros. Brawl, Super Smash Bros. for Wii U, and Super Smash Bros. Ultimate. Here, they are very briefly seen flying out the mansion when a part of it is knocked down.

In Mario & Luigi: Superstar Saga, Boos are enemies that only appear in Bowser's Castle; they aid Bowletta along with the rest of the minions who believe her to be Bowser. Outside of battle, they hover around, attacking Mario and Luigi when they are not looking. However, they look away if Mario or Luigi make eye contact. The Boos also show the ability to teleport. In battle, a Boo has two attacks. For the first attack, the Boo will teleport in front of one of the brothers and attempt to bite him. For the second attack, it will fly up into the air and swoop into one of the Mario Bros., which can even prohibit the use of certain moves or items. The former attack can be countered with Mario or Luigi's hammer, whereas the latter can be dodged or countered by jumping. In either of these attacks, if the Boo makes a face, it will target Luigi, if it does not, it will target Mario. Boos are weak to Firebrand and Fire Bros. They also have low HP, but very high defense.

Boos wearing mining helmets and brandishing pickaxes also appear in levels 4 and 5 of Mysterious Mine Carts (levels 3 and 5 in the remake). If these Boos touch Mario, they will cause the loss of a diamond. They will slowly shrink until they disappear if the flashlight is pointed at them.
Boos appear in the main game and in Minion Quest: The Search for Bowser from Mario & Luigi: Superstar Saga + Bowser's Minions. Boos are flying troopers, and attack by ramming into enemies. Their Special Skill, Evasion Cloak, allows them to increase their evasion, depending on how filled the meter that is shown becomes. Captain Boo appears as a playable captain in the game. When a Boo appears as a captain, they are able to attack the other captain from behind, using Sneak Attack.

There are also Boo Statues which become invisible and cannot be interacted with when looked directly at. Mario and Luigi must use the Tickle move to push them while facing backward.

During the events of Mario & Luigi: Partners in Time, Boos appear in Bowser's Castle of the past. In the field, Boos attack the same way as they did in Mario & Luigi: Superstar Saga. In battle, a Boo attacks by peeking through one of its eyes; peeking with the right eye is Mario, and with the left eye, Luigi. The Boo reappears behind the corresponding bro and charges from behind; this can be avoided or countered with a jump. Boos also appear during the battle with Sunnycide. While flipped on its back, Sunnycide can summon a Boo to attack Mario or Luigi, which can be countered with a hammer. Also, when a Handfake has a Bowser sign, a Boo or a Fly Guy carries a flame from Bowser's mouth. Dark Boos are found in the Gritzy Caves.

Boos make a reappearance in Mario & Luigi: Bowser's Inside Story. They appear in Bowser's Castle, where they have been brainwashed by Fawful along with the rest of Bowser's minions once he took over the castle. When Bowser gets to have a feast as a reward for beating Midbus at the Fawful Theater show, three Boos serve him food cooked by Fawful himself. However, Bowser is tricked into eating too much food and ends up getting fat, which results in him getting stuck in the floor due to his weight. Boos reappear later in the game to help many of the brainwashed minions of Bowser push the Fawful statue against him. In addition, a Boo appears whenever Bowser gets a level up. The Boo (just like the Fishin' Lakitu in Mario's or Luigi's level up screen) holds the circle for getting a bonus upgrade for the stat of the player's choice.
An odd thing shown in the game is a Boo and Koopa Troopa in love with each other in Bowser's Castle. They not only love each other, but also love Fawful due to the brainwashing that was put on the minions.
Yikk, a ghost who appears in the same game at the Tower of Yikk, explains that he researches Boos. He even builds a machine to visualize Boo transparency waves before he passed away.
During the fight with Bowser Memory M and Bowser Memory L, Bowser Memory L has an attack that involves a digital Boo chasing him around. The Boo can be jumped on by either Mario or Luigi to stop the attack prematurely.

Boos return in Mario & Luigi: Bowser's Inside Story + Bowser Jr.'s Journey, where they additionally are found as enemies and recruitable allies in the Bowser Jr.'s Journey mode. Their special attack is Discord, which lowers the speed of enemies.

Boos are referenced in Mario & Luigi: Dream Team. The game features an item named Boo Biscuit.

Boos appear in Mario & Luigi: Paper Jam in a minigame where the player has to save a Toad by running away from a Boo and avoiding firebars and bombs. Like in many other games, this Boo will stop if the Mario Bros. look at it, and will follow them if they look away. Boos can also be seen carrying Papercraft Boos, along with Papercraft King Boo. Their paper versions also appear as regular enemies in the haunted side of Gloomy Woods. King Boo also appears as a boss in Gloomy Woods. Boo Biscuits also return from Mario & Luigi: Dream Team.

Boos are enemies in Mario vs. Donkey Kong and its remake. They act similarly to their appearances in platforming games. Boos appear in both segments of Level 4-4 and in Level 4-4+ only. Boos cannot be defeated, and they grow and stick their tongue out if they defeat Mario or a Mini-Mario. The remake depicts Boos with a more toylike appearance, and Boos float towards Toad in co-op play if his back is turned away, but stop moving if looked at.

Boos are enemies in Mini Mario & Friends: amiibo Challenge. They are depicted with a toylike design. Boos appear in every level of Moonlight Mansion, as well as levels Star 3 and Star 5 in the Star World. Boos float in mid-air, with some of them staying in a single position and others moving back and forth horizontally or vertically. Boos are invincible. They become harmless if they enter the light coming from a Candle, making it possible for the Minis to bypass them as the Boos stop in place and cover their eyes.

Boos are enemies in Mario Pinball Land. Big Boo is one of the bosses. A Boo is defeated if hit from behind, rewarding 2,000 points. A Boo becomes transparent if Mario tries to pass through it and does not take damage. Boos sometimes vanish and reappear elsewhere in the area.

Boos are obstacles in Dance Dance Revolution: Mario Mix. Boos try to get the player character to miss a step, blocking his next move if successful. Boos can be held back if the stepped on, unlike their gigantic counterparts.

Boo is playable in Mario Superstar Baseball. It is on Wario's team as a starter. Boo is tied with Peach with its pitching, losing only to Bowser and Waluigi. Its special running and fielding move is a Super Jump. Its running and batting are weak, but its fielding is very poor. The only worse fielder in the game is Bowser.
Boo makes another appearance in Mario Super Sluggers. It is on Wario's team once again, and it can be unlocked in Wario City by finding it in between boxes and completing its challenge. Like its predecessor, Boo has the highest ranked pitch in the game, along with Peach (9/10). Despite its pitching being very high, its stamina is very poor, but its other stats range from average to low. Boo displays good chemistry with King Boo, Shy Guy, Magikoopa, and Blooper. It has bad chemistry with Mario, Luigi, Yoshi, Baby Mario, Baby Luigi, Baby Peach, and Baby Daisy.
There is a new item named Mini Boos that, when activated, turn the ball invisible for a short period of time. If used against a computer, the player stops moving until the Boos go away. If used when a special hit is in effect, the Boos do nothing.

Boos are enemies in Super Princess Peach. Boos behave like they do in Super Mario Bros. 3. Besides the returning Big Boos and Blindfold Boos, the game introduces an angry variety, Mad Boo. King Boo also returns as a boss.

Ghosts, as they are called generically, are enemies in Mario and the Incredible Rescue. Two of them are displayed on the cover, one depicting its artwork from Mario Kart: Super Circuit and the other from Luigi's Mansion. Ghosts capture Princess Peach and take her to Bowser's Castle, and Mario has a vision of six ghosts surrounding her. The ghosts are defeated eventually from a spell cast on them, sending them flying out of the castle.

Boo is an unlockable playable character in Mario Hoops 3-on-3. It is billed as a Tricky player. Boo's special ability is the Thriller Dunk. Boo can be unlocked by completing the Flower Tourney on hard difficulty.

Boos are sidekicks in Mario Strikers Charged. They wear a helmet with the logo of their team captain. Boos are classified as a playmaker, like Toads. They have Possess as their skillshot.

In the Mario & Sonic series, Boos mainly appear in a few events, sometimes also as audience members. In the Wii version of Mario & Sonic at the Olympic Games, Boos appear as an item in Dream Race, where they temporarily follow whoever is in first place, or second if the player in the lead uses it, causing them to lose speed. It is possible for multiple Boos to follow a character at once, causing them to remain at a lower speed, but a High Speed item can remove them. In the Nintendo DS version, Boos penalize the player if they perform two consecutive fouls in the 100m, 400m or 400m Hurdles events, and in Dream Basketball, a Boo blocks one of the baskets if a Chaos Emerald is used. Both versions of Mario & Sonic at the Olympic Games include Boos as part of the audience in various events. In the Nintendo DS version of Mario & Sonic at the Olympic Winter Games, Boos are items in three events: Ski Cross Racing, where they can steal Rings and items from players ahead of the user; Extreme Snowboarding, where Boos steal items from opponents in front and deplete the energy in their trick gauge; and Ski Shooting, where Boos will simply steal an item from an opponent if they have any. In the Nintendo 3DS version of Mario & Sonic at the Rio 2016 Olympic Games, Boos appear in Archery Plus, where they carry around the targets and disappear upon being shot.
Boos appear in some of the minigames. In the Nintendo DS version of Mario & Sonic at the Olympic Games, Boos appear in two minigames: Conveyor Belt, as one of the characters needing to be sorted, and Shoot!, as one of the enemies to be hit. In Mario & Sonic at the London 2012 Olympic Games, Boos also appear in some minigames in the London Party mode, which itself has some Boos that can be spoken to play minigames and earn stickers.

Boos have also had some of their own collectible items. In the Wii version of Mario & Sonic at the London 2012 Olympic Games, one of the unlockable Mii outfits is a jersey featuring a Boo design. In the Nintendo 3DS version of Mario & Sonic at the London 2012 Olympic Games, a badge of a Boo can be obtained from the badge machine.
In Nintendo 3DS version of Mario & Sonic at the London 2012 Olympic Games, a Boo first appears in the Story Mode trying to scare people away from the Tower of London with the Phantasmal Fog, and is then followed by Sonic and Tails who challenge the Boo and King Boo to an Olympic Event, with the Boos fleeing when they lose. A single Boo also appears at the opening ceremony. A Boo also appears in Mario's Defeat?!, in which it fails to bring Mario to the London Tennis Club but helps set up the match with a Goomba transformed to look like Mario, and later celebrates with the other minions when they notice that Bowser seems to be back to his usual self.

Boos are non-playable characters in Mario Sports Mix. They are encountered during Basketball and Volleyball matches in Luigi's Mansion, where Boos circle around the court. Boos make laughter sounds, especially when a player character scores.

Boos return in Captain Toad: Treasure Tracker and its ports. They are mostly the same as in Super Mario 3D World, but with some differences. Boos and Big Boos can be defeated quickly using either Toad's or Toadette's headlamp. Boos disappear while interacted with on the touch screen or with the pointer functionality; this does not reward any coin, unlike most enemies.

Boo is a playable character in Mario Sports Superstars. He is a starter captain-type who is billed a Technique player, giving him an advantage in accuracy or horse control, except in tennis, which bills him a Tricky type. Boo's rallies curve in tennis, making the trajectory of his shots less predictable. Boo has a default drive of 213 yards and shots that travel medium-low in a draw trajectory in golf.

Boos are obstacles in Mario + Rabbids Kingdom Battle. They warp to certain areas during the turn transition between the heroes and enemies. If a Boo converges on a character, it will follow said character and force them to warp to a random spot on the battlefield along with the Boo. Additionally, one of Rabbid Mario's Melee weapons has a design based on a Boo, and in Spooky Trails, several Boos can be found ensnared by ghostly chains, as well as a Boo Balloon that was merged with a Rabbid and a phonograph, becoming the Phantom.

While no Boos appear in Mario + Rabbids Sparks of Hope, the laugh of one can be heard if the Spark Vampastra applies its Vamp Attack ability to Mario, and he uses his Dual Slingers to attack. In the Rayman in the Phantom Show DLC, Boos make cameos as the Spooky Trails banners from the first game.

A Boo appear in the second level of the Mario Clash microgame in WarioWare, Inc.: Mega Microgame$!.

Two Boos appears in the Boo microgame in WarioWare: D.I.Y. Showcase. The objective of the microgame is to tap the arrow buttons on the screen to make Mario watch both Boos in the eyes without touching them.

The Mario Clash microgame returns in WarioWare Gold along with the Boo in the second level.

Boos are assistants in Dr. Mario World as of October 31, 2019. Its effect in stage mode is to fill the skill meter faster when yellow viruses are eliminated, where it fills more at higher levels. The percentage determines the number of points the skill meter fills, so for example at level 3, it fills 30% faster, meaning that for each yellow virus eliminated, an extra 0.3 points is added to the skill meter. In versus mode, its effect is to increase the speed the skill meter fills for both the user and their opponent, in which the amount of points required to fill the skill meter is reduced by the listed percentage. If both players use this assistant, the effect stacks. The resulting amount of points required to fill the skill meter is rounded down to the nearest round number.
A Boo was added as a doctor under the name Dr. Boo on September 24, 2020. His skill is represented by the Boo shielding his face, after which he shows his face and tongue. In stage mode, he immediately eliminates objects in a random 2 x 2 area, similar to Dr. Fire Rosalina's skill but it affects a smaller area. In versus mode, he eliminates objects in a 1 x 1 area at level 1, a 2 x 2 area at level 2 and a 3 x 3 area at level 3 to 5 (the skill meter fills faster at higher levels). This skill prioritizes areas that contain viruses, but if there are no more viruses, the area in which is targeted will be random as long as it contains at least one object.

Boos in The Legend of Zelda: Link's Awakening only appearing in a dark room in the games' second dungeon, Bottle Grotto. They actively chase Link regardless of whether he is facing them or not; if Links swings his sword at them, they disappear and reappear at a different location. After Link lights up the room, they become vulnerable and can then be defeated with Magic Powder. In the Nintendo Switch remake of the game, they now use their voice clips from the Super Mario franchise, and a Boo figure can be won from the Trendy Game after clearing the Key Cavern and placed in the Quadruples' house. The text that appears upon acquiring the figure reads, "You got a Boo figure! As spooky ghosts go, this one's pretty cute!"

Additionally, in the Super Mario Mash-up in Minecraft, Ghasts are replaced by Boos.

Boo is a playable character in Monopoly Gamer. It is sold separately as a "Power Pack" expansion figure.

Boos were going to appear physically in Super Mario Odyssey, as one is seen in concept art for the game, but they were removed from the game, making this game the first game in the Super Mario series to not contain Boos since Super Mario Land. However, Peach wears a Boo mask on the side of her head when she visits Bowser's Kingdom, a common way to wear masks of yōkai in festivals in Japan.

Boos were planned to appear in the film, as they can be seen in early concept artwork for the Dark Lands, but they were removed from the final release. However, their leader, King Boo, makes an appearance during the wedding between Bowser and Peach.

Though their specifics change from game to game, Boos are usually bashful, cowardly, spherical ghosts. They have black beady eyes and fangs. Although they are typically white, there are sub-species of the Boo race that appear in different colors, such as pink. From Luigi's Mansion onward, it became common to picture Boos sticking out their tongues. Boos often have wide open grinning mouths with their tongue sticking out. In most games, Boos are unable to change their facial expressions. The only exception is when they are looked at, in which case they bashfully cover their faces along with the section around their eyes blushing red or pink. However, the Luigi's Mansion and early Paper Mario games portray Boos as being more expressive than in other games, being able to frown, scowl, or even smirk. Since Super Mario 64, Boos have been portrayed with a unique, high-pitched laugh. Both this laugh and Bowser's laugh are derived from the same stock recording of a human man laughing recorded by Charles Martinet; it was sped up for the Boos and slowed down for Bowser. However, Boos received a new laugh starting in Mario Power Tennis, being more of a haunting laugh than before. Although most species of Boo will cover their faces and become intangible when looked at, they will often sneak behind their victim and strike when their back is turned. Due to their ghostly abilities, Boos are generally invulnerable and cannot be harmed by ordinary means of attack. Despite this, they are not invincible and are especially vulnerable to the light. If they are exposed to a source of light, Boos are usually weakened, and in some cases, they may even be defeated. Usually, they can also have other weaknesses. Because of their intolerance to the light, Boos will often hide if they are trapped in lit rooms. However, King Boo claims that Boos cannot truly be killed. While the ghosts generally appear to be more afraid of their victims than their victim is of them, this is not always the case. Some Boos have absolutely no problem meeting their victim's gaze, and will even try to attack. Boos tend to have a taste for the fine arts, as seen in Paper Mario and Mario Party 4. In Luigi's Mansion: Dark Moon it is shown that Boos will actually save someone if only later to trick them. This is seen when Luigi watches through pipe in the Old Clockworks as a Yellow Toad balances on a ledge. Some Boos appear and watch the Toad before it falls off the ledge, which is later found to be quite a drop, the Boos show a large amount of concern and shock when this happens before diving down for the Toad. The Toad is later found in a painting because of the Boos.
Boos are often characterized by their sub-species despite their similarities in appearance and attack manner. Boo species tend to vary wildly in size, with some such as Boo Buddies being miniature, while others such as the Big Boos boast gigantic size. 
In Luigi's Mansion, Professor E. Gadd notes that Boos have mysterious powers that increase when they gather together in large groups. While it is difficult to stop them, they can be weakened if one is able to defeat members of the group. Although in Luigi's Mansion: Dark Moon this does not seem to affect them or King Boo in any way suggesting that they do not always need to be in groups anymore.
Boos have few predators, their only known threat being a Spike named Tubba Blubba in Paper Mario, when he began devouring Boos. This, however, may have been his revenge for the countless times the ghosts scared him.

Boos come in many different colors. The following is a list of all known Boos and the first appearance of the respective Boo.

Boos typically make their homes in dark forests, such as Forever Forest and the Boo Woods, and tend to be most commonly found in older buildings such as mansions, castles, and Ghost Houses. Although most of them live in such dwellings, they also seem to enjoy wastelands. One of the only known Boo villages lies in Gusty Gulch.
They are typically found in groups because their fears make them find strength in big numbers.

Though most Boos tend to side with Bowser and King Boo, they seem to, for the most part, actually stand as neutral. For example, Boos are by now a common enemy in most side-scrolling games; however, in the Paper Mario series and now increasingly in the multiplayer games, Boos have been seen to take the side of the Mushroom Kingdom. Lady Bow, in fact, helped Mario save the kingdom in Paper Mario. In another example, the Boos in the Creepy Steeple from Paper Mario: The Thousand-Year Door attack Mario initially, but later in the game Mario is sent a friendly letter from one of them. King Boo, on the other hand, has several times been shown to wish nothing but terrible things for the heroes, but especially Luigi (although this could be accredited to Luigi being easily scared, making him a prime target for most Boo antics). They also have attacked Bowser in some games, such as the Mario Party series, mainly from Mario Party 5 to Mario Party 8.

As hinted in the game Super Mario Galaxy, Boos have their own unique language called Booish. It most probably is spoken only by Boos since Mario cannot understand it. However, upon absorbing a Boo Mushroom and turning into Boo Mario, he gains the ability to read it, if not speak it as well.
Paper Mario also features Boos replacing certain words with "Boo", possibly as a part of the Booish language:

I am so bored!! Boo-ored!
Boo-st of luck!
Hey, what can I Boo for you?
It's going to be the most Boo-tiful wedding ever!