Coin Battle is a multiplayer-exclusive mode in a few games of the Super Mario series, including New Super Mario Bros. Wii, New Super Mario Bros. U, and New Super Mario Bros. U Deluxe. In Coin Battle, up to four players compete to collect the most coins in a level, with most levels being from the main game.

In New Super Mario Bros. Wii, Coin Battle is selectable from the main menu, and is playable with two to four players. Every course from the main game is selectable, but each course must be visited at least once in the main game in order to play it in Coin Battle.

In New Super Mario Bros. U and New Super Mario Bros. U Deluxe, Coin Battle returns, and can be selected from the main menu. As in New Super Mario Bros. Wii, every course in the main game is playable in Coin Battle, and there is also a set of courses exclusive to Coin Battle. All players now have unlimited lives, and the coin counter has been removed. Additionally, players can split into two teams and go against each other. The Wii U GamePad player also has the option of setting up custom coin layouts in other courses, which can then be played by the players with Wii Remotes.
As with the other game modes, Coin Battle does not reappear in New Super Luigi U.

In New Super Mario Bros. U Deluxe, powerups collected by Nabbit do not get any bonus coins.

Coin Edit is a optional game mode in the New Super Mario Bros. U version of Coin Battle. It appears only in the Coin Courses and is optional. Here, a player can place up to 300 Coins and up to three Star Coins almost freely by using the Wii U GamePad's stylus on the screen. There is a button that can make the player change sections, reset the layout, quit without saving or quit and save; by doing this, the player can store the layout being made. After this, the level can be played with the custom layout.
Areas where coins cannot be placed include near an enemy, a Warp Pipe, or the level's beginning and end. Additionally, the player is unable to create complex Coin layouts such as raining coins, and must only place Coins on a tile-based grid.