Electric rails or power lines are barriers of electrical energy in the Super Mario franchise.

In Super Mario Strikers, Mario Strikers Charged, and Mario Strikers: Battle League, electric rails appear around all of the soccer fields except for Thunder Island, in which they only appear at the corners. If players get tackled into the fence, they will be shocked temporarily. The fence cannot be seen; it is transparent until players run into it. Some options allow for either electric rails to be disabled or it to shock the player if they even go near the fence.

An electric rail grid is seen underneath the main platform in Power Trip, a minigame in Mario Party 8.

An electric rail surrounds the ring in Bumper Sparks, a minigame in Mario Party 9.

Electric rails appear in Super Mario Galaxy in Good Egg Galaxy, Flipswitch Galaxy, Sweet Sweet Galaxy, Battlerock Galaxy, Ghostly Galaxy, Bowser Jr.'s Airship Armada, Toy Time Galaxy, Sand Spiral Galaxy, Deep Dark Galaxy, Dreadnought Galaxy and Bubble Blast Galaxy, where they occasionally move horizontally throughout the galaxy and shock Mario and Luigi if contact is made. They appear in green and red. There are also beams of electricity in Dreadnought Galaxy that act similarly to electric rails. They are used to defeat Spiky Topmen and Spring Topmen. If Mario or Luigi lose a life from an electric rail, they will turn into a skeleton, but there is a small chance of staying as normal. This effect is also seen briefly, if the player looks closely, when Mario and Luigi take damage after hitting one. In some galaxies, they can be deactivated by stepping on Flipswitch Panels, hitting a Spiky Topman with a spin attack into them, defeating it as well, or defeating an Undergrunt Gunner. No matter which way the camera faces, the reflection on the spheres that make them up shown is always exactly the same.

Electric rails are found in World 6-Airship in New Super Mario Bros. Wii, where they are used in the second airship battle against Bowser Jr. The player must knock Bowser Jr. into the fence three times in order to win. However, if Mario and his friends are pushed into the rail, they will take damage.

In Super Mario Galaxy 2, green electric rails appear in Flip-Swap Galaxy, Bowser's Lava Lair, Space Storm Galaxy, Upside Dizzy Galaxy, Bowser Jr.'s Boom Bunker, Clockwork Ruins Galaxy, Bowser's Galaxy Generator and Grandmaster Galaxy, while red ones only appear in Bowser Jr.'s Fearsome Fleet. They retain their function and effect from the previous game, but Mario will no longer turn into a skeleton if he loses a life from an electric rail.

In Donkey Kong Country: Tropical Freeze, a single electric rail can be found among some pendulums in Precarious Pendulums.