Grand Stars are large and powerful Power Stars sometimes appearing in the Super Mario franchise. In Super Mario Galaxy, their first appearance, Grand Stars are used to provide power to the six domes onboard the Comet Observatory, thereby allowing the player to reach more galaxies as the events of the game progress. In Super Mario Galaxy 2, Grand Stars still allow the player to reach more and more galaxies, but they now provide direct access to the next World via their transformation into a Portal instead.

Rosalina has a Grand Star as her emblem throughout many of her other appearances, including Super Mario 3D World and various spinoff games of the Super Mario franchise, including the Mario Tennis series, the Mario Kart series, and the Mario Party series. In Super Mario 3D World, her emblem can be seen whenever she grabs a Goal Pole or touches a Checkpoint Flag, and on Rosalina's Character Switch. In Mini Mario & Friends: amiibo Challenge, the Grand Star is similarly used to signify Mini Rosalina's levels.

Super Mario Galaxy is the first game in which Grand Stars appear. All of them are stolen by Bowser to be used for his own evil ambitions. As Mario recovers them, he gradually gains access to different parts of Rosalina's Comet Observatory due to the Grand Stars being the power source of the Comet Observatory's Beacon, which in turn sustains all life onboard the observatory. As each Grand Star is found, a path to the next dome is created. Counting the Grand Star obtained from clearing Bowser's Galaxy Reactor, it is only required to obtain 6 of the 7 Grand Stars to complete the game. It is possible to completely skip the Grand Star from the Engine Room, as Bowser's Galaxy Reactor can be unlocked as soon as the previous dome is cleared, provided the player has 60 Power Stars.

The following Grand Stars can be obtained in the following galaxies by completing the following missions (listed in parentheses). For the first six, they unlock the following areas of the Comet Observatory:

Gateway Galaxy (Grand Star Rescue): Gate
Bowser Jr.'s Robot Reactor (Megaleg's Moon): Terrace
Bowser's Star Reactor (The Fiery Stronghold): Fountain
Bowser Jr.'s Airship Armada (Sinking the Airships): Kitchen
Bowser's Dark Matter Plant (Darkness on the Horizon): Bedroom
Bowser Jr.'s Lava Reactor (King Kaliente's Spicy Return): Engine Room
Bowser's Galaxy Reactor (The Fate of the Universe)

Grand Stars make another appearance in Super Mario Galaxy 2, the 2010 sequel to Super Mario Galaxy. In this game, the Grand Stars are once again under the control of Bowser and Bowser Jr. This time around, Grand Stars restore power to Starship Mario, and also create the Portals leading from one World to the next. In addition to this, the Grand Stars in this game are apparently responsible for Bowser's enormous size, as he has eaten them to make himself considerably larger. After Mario defeats one of Bowser Jr.'s machines or henchmen, it will explode and release a Grand Star. After Mario defeats Bowser, he will cough up a Grand Star and shrink to his normal size. During the final battle in Bowser's Galaxy Generator, he is actually able to swallow the Grand Star again, making himself a great deal larger than he had been and leading to the final segment of the battle. Interestingly, the Grand Stars seem to have a side effect when misused, one that causes Bowser to become extremely tiny after the final battle, as seen in the end credits of the game. Bowser Jr.'s Fiery Flotilla is the only galaxy in the game where, if Mario accepts the help of the Cosmic Spirit, the Grand Star will turn into a Bronze Grand Star.

The following Grand Stars can be obtained from the following galaxies by clearing the following missions (listed in parentheses):

Bowser Jr.'s Fiery Flotilla (Gobblegut's Aching Belly)
Bowser's Lava Lair (Bowser's Big Lava Power Party)
Bowser Jr.'s Fearsome Fleet (Bowser Jr.'s Mighty Megahammer)
Bowser's Gravity Gauntlet (Breaking into Bowser's Castle)
Bowser Jr.'s Boom Bunker (Bowser Jr.'s Boomsday Machine)
Bowser's Galaxy Generator (Bowser's Fortified Fortress)

While Grand Stars have not appeared physically in the Mario Kart series, they have been consistently used as Rosalina's emblem, and later, Baby Rosalina's as well. In the latter's case, the emblem features a Grand Star inside blue bonnet frills.

In Mario Kart 8 and Mario Kart 8 Deluxe, a floating Grand Star replaces the star icon that can be seen rotating on top of the tower in the city in N64 Rainbow Road.

Grand Stars appear in Mario Kart Tour as collectibles, earned by attaining a certain score after each race, completing tour challenges, Gold Pass challenges, daily challenges (prior to the Wedding Tour), and by using star tickets. Prior to the Baby Rosalina Tour, to unlock more cups and progress further through each tour, a certain number of Grand Stars was required. In every tour, each tour gift also requires a certain number of Grand Stars to open. From the Baby Rosalina Tour to the 2022 Anniversary Tour, Grand Stars also unlocked free pipe launches from the weekly spotlight pipes. When the player has opened every tour gift, any subsequent Grand Stars earned are converted to 100 coins each, and when a new tour begins, the total is reset to zero. Rosalina (Swimwear)'s teal swimdress is also decorated with Grand Stars.

In the Super Mario Mash-up in Minecraft, Nether Stars are replaced by Grand Stars.

Rosalina's Final Smash in Super Smash Bros. Ultimate utilizes a Grand Star in place of the Power Star from the previous installments.