Larry Koopa (known as Cheatsy Koopa in the cartoons) is the youngest of the Koopalings, a clan of seven siblings that act as leaders of the Koopa Troop under Bowser, and who were originally considered to be his children. Like Ludwig, Larry has blue hair, albeit a lighter color and in a different style, resembling a cockscomb. In the Nintendo Power Super Mario World guide, Larry is referred as "Bowser's number one Koopaling". 
A rumor that Larry was named after the American talk show host Larry King stems from the Official Nintendo Magazine in Great Britain. The former Nintendo of America employee Dayvv Brooks, who originally named the Koopalings, claimed instead that Larry was named after Larry Mullen Jr., the drummer for the Irish rock band U2. This would mean that all the Koopalings were named after musicians. However, Brooks contradicted this claim in a December 2015 interview, stating that Larry was not named after anyone in particular, and that he simply "looked like a Larry."

In Larry's first appearance, Super Mario Bros. 3, he is the first Koopaling to be battled. He steals the magic wand from the king of Grass Land and turns him into a dog (a Cobrat in the SNES version). After Mario goes through all of the airship's cannons, he battles Larry in his cabin, who is determined to fight Mario for the wand. In this battle, Larry jumps around and shoots magic blasts from his stolen magic wand. He needs to be jumped on three times to be defeated. He is then forced to make a quick retreat. Mario got the wand back, the king was returned to normal, and thanked him for returning him to his original state.
His role is expanded slightly in the opening cutscene of the GBA remake, Super Mario Advance 4: Super Mario Bros. 3. He is shown breaking into the Grass Land castle at the dead of night during a thunderstorm, stealing the wand and turning the king into a Cobrat, leading to Grass Land's request for the Mushroom Kingdom's assistance.

Larry's second appearance is in the last world of Super Mario World, the Valley of Bowser. In battle, he uses Iggy's attack pattern and defeating condition. He sits on top of a tilting platform on top of lava and is immune to all of Mario's attacks. However, unlike Iggy, Larry's platform has three Lava Bubbles that jumps up and down. He can also throw more than one fireball at one time. Larry needs to be jumped on until he falls off his platform. After the battle, Mario kicks away his castle and gains access to the Front Door. This is Larry's first time being the last Koopaling to fight so far. Like the other Koopalings, his in-game design does not match official artwork.

The Koopalings made their 3D-rendered debut in New Super Mario Bros. Wii. Larry is the boss of World 1, which is reminiscent of Super Mario Bros. 3. In this appearance, Larry looks almost the same as before, but his two small fangs are now gone, he has a blue star on his head similar to Morton (however, compared to Morton's star, it is instead near the back of his head); and he now has a azure colored shell similar to the color of his hair.
Larry, Bowser Jr., and the rest of the Koopalings appear in the game's intro. They use a giant cake to capture Princess Peach during her birthday party. The Koopalings then flee on their airship while Mario, Luigi, Yellow Toad, and Blue Toad give chase.
Before battling him, he is shocked at Mario's presence, rages about it and gets ready to fight. In the first battle, Larry fires cyan fireballs at Mario and jumps. After being hit, he retreats into his shell and starts to spin around the area, causing Mario damage if he comes in contact with him. After three stomps on the head, Larry is defeated, retreating to his castle in World 1. 
Larry's second battle (in his castle) is in a room filled with platforms that shift up and down due to Magikoopa's magic. Larry has the same tactics as his last fight. However, his shell dash attack is more difficult to avoid because of the moving room (unless he gets stuck between two of the platforms). After three more stomps Larry is defeated. After this fight he falls off the screen, leaving the key to the desert, where Roy is. In the ending, he is shown limping when he comes across Bowser Jr., who points to the other Koopalings, and they watch as the latters prop Bowser up, which causes the castle to start falling on top of them.

Larry is a boss once again in New Super Mario Bros. 2. He is fought in World Mushroom-Castle. Like in New Super Mario Bros. Wii, he throws a tantrum on the fact that Mario made it through his castle before fighting him once more.
His battle features three cyan platforms in the middle of the room, four holes, two on the floor and two on the ceiling and two stone pillars, which go in and out of the four holes, always one on the top and one on the floor. Using his magic wand, Larry shoots sky cyan fireballs, which ricochet off the walls upon contact, similar to Wendy's candy rings. Oddly, despite being seen dragging Princess Peach along when his world is unlocked, the aftermath of the battle does not have Mario discovering Princess Peach in the room after him. A similar oddity appears with Lemmy in World Flower.
Like all the other Koopalings, Mario has to jump on Larry's head to defeat him. After three stomps, Larry is defeated, leaving the key to World 3.
Larry joins the Koopalings at Bowser's Castle, where they attempt to petrify Mario with their Koopa Clown Car's petrification device. He also aids Bowser alongside the rest of the Koopalings by causing him to grow larger, but it results in him and the others being knocked into a lava pit by Bowser due to his increased size. He and the other Koopalings survive, however, and attempt to help Bowser by airlifting him with the Koopa Clown Car, but this ends up with it crashing due to it being unable to handle the combined weight of both them and Bowser. Larry ends up flung into a tree as a result of the crash.
In the New Super Mario Bros. 2 Prima guide, Iggy was mistaken for Larry in World 2.

 
Larry reappears in New Super Mario Bros. U, New Super Luigi U and New Super Mario Bros. U Deluxe, alongside the rest of the Koopalings, Boom Boom, Magikoopa, and Bowser Jr. He is the boss of Sparkling Waters, and is battled in Larry's Torpedo Castle (New Super Mario Bros. U) and Larry's Trigger-Happy Castle (New Super Luigi U). His battle strategy is to blast fireballs and use water blasts from the pool below the arena, which act like the pillars from his previous New Super Mario Bros. battles. When Larry is spinning in his shell, the water geysers give his shell a boost upwards, making it a bit difficult to avoid. After two stomps, Larry starts to cast two fireballs in quick succession. In addition, he is one of only three Koopalings to retain the use of a magic wand, the others being Iggy and Ludwig. When the player reaches his airship at the end of Sparkling Waters' Castle, he emits a mocking laugh. However, when Mario actually boards his airship, Larry will once again get into one of his rages. Three hits to his head will make him fall off-screen. Despite this, Larry survives, and is later picked up along with the rest of the Koopalings by Bowser Jr., although they end up escaping by hanging onto Bowser's tail after the latter inadvertently destroyed Bowser Jr's (already damaged) ship.
On a side note, Larry is the only Koopaling to not receive new artwork, with his New Super Mario Bros. Wii artwork simply being reused, although with an updated look. Roy's artwork was also recycled, however it was mirrored and altered to add his Bill Blaster weapon. Also, the top of Larry's magic wand turns pink when Mario jumps on his head. Unlike in New Super Mario Bros. 2, Larry's defeated voice clip is same as the one from the Fortress in New Super Mario Bros. Wii, rather than that of the Castle.
Larry's role is slightly expanded, as he is in a challenge in Challenge Mode in Larry's Groundless Battle. This is exactly like the battle in the main game, except the player cannot touch the ground. The player can touch the geysers, however.

Larry appears alongside the other Koopalings as a placeable enemy in the final update for Super Mario Maker 2, being available in every game style except the Super Mario 3D World style. Larry receives an original sprite for his appearance in the Super Mario Bros. style, as well as a redrawn sprite for the Super Mario World style. His behavior is to hop around making it a bit more difficult to hit Larry. When given wings, he jumps more frequently and higher.

In The Adventures of Super Mario Bros. 3 produced by Nintendo and DIC Entertainment, he is named Cheatsy Koopa and is usually scheming up Bowser's latest plan, sometimes in conjunction with Kooky. There are notable differences regarding his design here. His hair is a mohawk with several strands that point in different directions instead of a cocksomb, he has an elongated muzzle instead of a short, rounded one, a flat mouth with two protruding teeth instead of a feline one with four protruding teeth, his skin is slightly darker and has a tail that curls around like a pig's, and he has pronounced wrinkles. He is almost always seen squinting. He appears the most of all the Koopa Kids in the cartoon. Cheatsy is voiced by James Rankin.
A very common animation goof regarding Cheatsy is that his green head is often colored orange, the same color as the rest of his body. One particular shot in the episode "The Beauty of Kootie" even has his head mistakenly colored purple.

 

In the Super Mario World animated series, Cheatsy's hair was changed to a lighter green color for unknown reasons. He is the only Koopaling to appear in more than one episode as a main villain:

Larry appeared in the interactive Anime adaptation of Super Mario World. On Chocolate Island, he, alongside Lemmy, Wendy, Ludwig, Morton, and Roy, ambushed Mario and Luigi at a fortress. He alongside his brothers fought Mario after Wendy nearly fell into lava, but Mario broke open a red block to get a Cape Feather and sent them flying.

Larry often appeared in Nintendo Comics System comics, published by Valiant. Unlike his siblings and his father, he did not speak an intelligible language (whether he was unable to or did not by choice was not revealed). Instead, he spoke in pictures, which were understood only by Lemmy. However, in the Super Mario Adventures comic, he was able to speak intelligibly.

In Leaping Lizards, either Larry or Ludwig compete alongside five of their siblings in the International Mushroom Games.
In Koopa Capers, Larry and his brothers have their wands stolen by Wendy, who disappears with them shortly afterward, intent on overthrowing their father with her own army and a super wand she intends to create by fusing her own wand with her brothers'. If Luigi, who had been coerced by Bowser into searching for Wendy, tracks the female Koopaling down to her hideout, Bowser and the male Koopalings, who had been following him, will barge in after the plumber, but decide to stave off punishing Wendy for her treachery if she helps search for the hiding Luigi. If Luigi had acquired Boom Boom's socks earlier in his adventure, he can toss them into Wendy's simmering wand combination potion, which will release fumes that knock the entire Koopa family and their minions out for at least a week.
In Dinosaur Dilemma, if Mario and Yoshi decide to hide from Bowser in the kitchen while snooping around his Dinosaur Island Castle, Larry (incorrectly described as having red and blue hair) sneaks up on the two, and steals several coins out of Mario's pocket before dumping a large pan of sticky, uncooked dough on him and Yoshi, trapping them.

Larry appears in the Homemaker page in Super Mario Bros. & Friends: When I Grow Up.

Larry is the first boss in the PC version of Mario is Missing!, where it takes a single blast from a fire flower to defeat him. He also taunts Luigi with the knowledge that he will not see his brother again, although he also admits that even he does not know the door Mario is trapped in. Eventually, after realizing that Luigi possesses a fire flower, and thus is capable of defeating him, Larry attempts to talk his way out by claiming that he is on Luigi's side, only for Luigi to ignore him. Larry does not appear in the SNES version of Mario is Missing!, although he is pictured alongside Morton and Lemmy in the manual.

In Yoshi's Safari, Larry is the boss of Crescent Coast. Larry rides in a sun-like submarine that has a purple face and a blue nose. Mario has to shoot at the nose to get it to open up and expose Larry. He then zooms around the screen while Mario continues to shoot at it. Eventually the submarine breaks and Larry holds up a white flag as he floats up to the surface.

The last appearance of Larry for almost a decade was in Hotel Mario. He is found and battled in Larry's Chillton Hotel with the words "Larry's Cave Hotel" and "This mine is mine" written on the entrance. In Larry's Scary Lair, Larry attacks by using bowling balls, further signifying his love of sports. Like most other battles, this Koopaling can eat the Mario Bros. in (presumably) one gulp if they meet in an elevator.

After almost a decade of absence, Larry reappears in Mario & Luigi: Superstar Saga, alongside the other Koopalings. In this game, he, along with the other Koopalings, are ordered by Bowletta to deal with the Mario Bros. as they storm Bowser's Castle. He is fought after Wendy is defeated, and is the last Koopaling to be fought, just like in Super Mario World. Before battle, Larry traps Luigi in a barrel and shoots a fireball at him. To engage Larry, Luigi needs to stand in front of the Bob-omb to bounce the fireball back, while Larry does likewise with his tennis racket. Luigi has to continue bouncing the fireball back until it hits Larry, making him angry and forcing the Mario Bros. into a battle with him.
In battle, he spits fireballs (similar to the other Koopalings), bouncing them back with his tennis racket. He also spins around, similar to Iggy or Ludwig. He also has a Time Bob-omb on his side, which limits the amount of turns taken to defeat him. In the end, he is defeated and disappears.
Defeating Larry causes the spikes blocking their path to disappear, allowing Mario and Luigi to battle Fawful.

Larry reappears in Mario & Luigi: Paper Jam. He first appears in Doop Doop Dunes with Ludwig, Wendy and Roy where they capture Mario, Luigi and Paper Mario. He is also mentioned briefly by Roy and Wendy shortly before they fought the Mario Bros., where they tried to call him in to aid them in beating them up, though he failed to show (with Wendy later blaming Larry for this when they were defeated). In the Twinsy Tropics Dungeon, as Mario & co. head to the pipe that leads them to Bowser's Castle, they are stopped by Larry and Ludwig, telling them they need a pass to enter. Larry and Ludwig then briefly attack the Mario gang inside the pipe until Starlow unleashes a "Supernova Sparkle" attack. Larry then walks out of the pipe with Mario & co. and has a short temper from Starlow calling him a shrimp, Luigi standing in the wrong side, and Ludwig not being present for his back-up. After Ludwig finally arrives, Larry and Ludwig fight Mario & co. Upon being defeated, Larry claims that fighting them and losing was all part of the plan to ensure the heroes could not infiltrate Bowser's Castle. Larry is encountered one last time on top of Neo Bowser Castle, alongside the rest of the Koopalings. Larry briefly tells Ludwig that he will be battling Mario & co. for his own free will, not because he (Ludwig) is some kind of leader. Larry and Ludwig then battle Mario & co. one last time. After the battle, Larry utters some last words, complaining to Ludwig that now he thinks he is some king, just before exploding.
In both of their boss battles in the main story, Larry and Ludwig gain Dark Star Points by successfully damaging Mario, Luigi, and Paper Mario. Those Dark Star Points are then used by Ludwig to unleash the effects of his Battle Cards. Larry follows the moves of his brother, even if a bit clumsily (for example, after they attack by spinning the shell Larry is dizzy while Ludwig is not). They either retreat in the shell and attack the bros. first and then Paper Mario, or they try to hide behind a giant bomb that some Shy Guys try to deliver to the bros., or they attack with the wand. In the latter case, Larry only attacks Paper Mario, first with a magic fireball, then by flailing his wand while running toward him. This is also the only attack of the Koopalings when both Mario bros. are defeated. Like Wendy, Roy and Ludwig, when alone he creates giant magic fireballs with his wand.
Larry and Ludwig are also summoned by Dry Bowser in the Boss Battle Ring after Roy and Wendy have been defeated; however, this time they do not gain Dark Star Points.
Larry's head is light green instead of the usual dark green in this game, similar to Bowser in the Mario & Luigi games in general.

Larry appears in Mario & Luigi: Superstar Saga + Bowser's Minions  with the same role as the original game with added dialogue. His spinning attack has been changed; he will now spin inside his shell, similar to Roy. He also appears in the added on story mode Minion Quest: The Search for Bowser as a Ranged-type ally. He and the other Koopalings get brainwashed by Fawful in the beginning of the game’s story and try to conquer the Beanbean Kingdom afterwards. Larry is requited after the player defeats him in the Beanbean Fields, and he seems to be the most respectful to Captain Goomba and his squad and the most willing to join out of all the Koopalings, although he strongly dislikes taking orders from a Goomba. His stat spread is relatively balanced, but focuses on having high ACCURACY.

Larry appears in Mario & Luigi: Bowser's Inside Story + Bowser Jr.'s Journey, in the game's new side story Bowser Jr.'s Journey. Larry, in an attempt to teach Bowser Jr. a lesson, ended up briefly fighting him when Bowser Jr. ignored Ludwig. After this, Larry joined Bowser Jr. along with the other Koopalings (with the exception of Lemmy) to find the ingredients for Skeletone Formula:D. During their search for the Giga-Carrot, one of the ingredients required, Larry shouted at Bowser Jr. for his treatment to Morton after he tore him down. After Roy left due to having enough of Bowser Jr.'s behavior, Larry admitted he felt the same way. He eventually left alongside Wendy to head back to Bowser's Castle after Kaley informed them that it was under attack, also telling Wendy to ignore Bowser Jr. and let him fend for himself. They witnessed Dieter beat up Lemmy before rousting him and trying to escape. Unfortunately, they weren't able to make it far before all three were trapped in barrels. He alongside Lemmy successfully escaped amidst the chaos caused by Bowser's Castle relocating itself and Bowser growing giant to fight the castle, although they were forced to leave Wendy behind. Eventually, they witnessed Bowser being crushed by the Tower of Yikk, and attempted to help him get the tower's foot off him, although this proved to be unnecessary due to Bowser becoming Super Bowser. They also attempted to aid Bowser in defeating the tower, thus forcing Bowser Jr. to go after them and throw them out of the way when they nearly got killed in the crossfire. Bowser Jr. them apologizes to Larry and Lemmy for his behavior from before, and they both joined his side once again. In the ending, during the festivities, Larry is seen excitedly pointing at something towards Bowser Jr., presumably informing him that Bowser had returned home, albeit heavily injured from a fight with the Mario Bros.

Larry, alongside the rest of the Koopalings, appears as a playable character for the first time in Mario Kart 8, where he is an unlockable character. This time, he is voiced by Michelle Hippe. His nickname in a Japanese Nintendo Direct for Mario Kart 8 is ｢クッパ軍団の特攻隊長」, or "Koopa Troop's Special Squad Leader'" (localized as the "Authority of Acceleration" or "Super Trooper of Bowser's Army"). His emblem is shown to be a sky blue silhouette of his own head, in a similar manner to Bowser and Bowser Jr. His winning animation has him waving to the crowd.
Larry is one of the heavier lightweights in the game. As such, his acceleration, handling, and grip stats are lowered a little to boost his speed and weight (he shares this trait with Toad, Koopa Troopa, Shy Guy, Toadette, Lakitu, Wendy, and Isabelle). The CPU-controlled Larry can be seen using the Standard bodies, Standard Kart with Standard tires, Standard Bike with Slim tires, the Standard ATV with Monster tires, the Pipe Frame with Standard tires or the Landship with Wood tires.
Larry is the Normal Staff Ghost for Electrodrome. There is also an advertisement for Larry Lights that can be seen in that course, as well as several screens that feature a silhouette of him as a disc jockey in front of dancing Koopa Troopas and Shy Guys.
Larry's main color for his parts is yellow, similar to Bowser Jr. in Mario Kart Wii, and his signature light blue is used as a secondary or an alternative color. The color scheme selection of his parts is based on these colors. It is similar to that of Yellow Miis, Shy Guys and Yoshis with some color schemes being used by Light Blue Miis. An expection to this is his Circuit Special which, despite being yellow and orange, is not used by either Mii color.
On an additional note, Larry has a peculiar glider trick animation while riding sport bikes; only one hand grabs the handlebar, instead of the usual two with standard bikes and ATVs.
In the Nintendo Switch port Mario Kart 8 Deluxe, Larry reappears as a default playable character. He now shares stats with only Toad and Shy Guy, and is still among the heaviest lightweight characters. If Larry is a CPU, he can also ride the Sport Bike with Monster Tires.

Larry appears alongside the other Koopalings in Mario Kart Tour starting from the Tokyo Tour. He is a Normal character, being easy to unlock. His special item is the Boomerang Flower. In the closed beta test, however, his special item was the Triple Bananas. A variant of Larry with winter attire, named Larry (Wintertime), debuted in the 2022 Holiday Tour, making him the only Koopaling to receive an alternate variant. His special item is the Coin Box. Larry is the only Koopaling whose cup has been featured as a ranked cup at least once.

Larry appears alongside the other Koopalings and Bowser Jr. as one of the racing opponents in the virtual reality game Mario Kart Live: Home Circuit. He is seen using his personalized Koopa Clown from Mario Kart 8 Deluxe.

Larry appears in Puzzle & Dragons: Super Mario Bros. Edition as a Wood attribute character. He's the World 1-Castle and World 1-Airship Boss. Larry will join the player when ★World 1-Airship is completed. His Skill is Larry's Tornado, which changes Light Orbs into Wood Orbs and Heart Orbs into Fire Orbs.

In the Mario & Sonic series, Larry first appears in the Wii version of Mario & Sonic at the London 2012 Olympic Games as an unlockable Mii outfit, and retains this role in Mario & Sonic at the Sochi 2014 Olympic Winter Games.
Since Mario & Sonic at the Rio 2016 Olympic Games, Larry Koopa has been a playable character, though only in different iterations of the Equestrian event. In the Nintendo 3DS version, Larry is unlocked by beating him in Dream Equestrian on Day Four of the Sonic Story. In the Wii U version, Larry can be challenged after placing first in the level 2 Equestrian tournament. Upon defeat, the player will unlock him for that event. Larry retains this role in Mario & Sonic at the Olympic Games Tokyo 2020, and is of the Technique type.

Larry (alongside the other Koopalings) makes his Super Smash Bros. debut as a playable character accessible via Bowser Jr.'s alternate costumes in Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS and Super Smash Bros. for Wii U. He is unlockable in the former game and available from the start in the latter. His attacks and statistics are identical to Bowser Jr.'s, though he is referred to by his own name by the announcer and has his own voice clips. Larry can also appear in place of Bowser Jr. in All-Star mode (like the other Koopalings), and, in the Wii U game, he is also the only Koopaling that can be faced as an opponent in rounds 4 and 5 in Classic mode if the player chooses the defeated Bowser Jr. from rounds 1-3 as a team member against another Bowser Jr.
Like the other Koopalings, he is actually driving a mass-produced version of the Junior Clown Car (as noted by the yellow light bulbs that serve as its eyes). The rim and propeller of his Junior Clown Car are colored light blue (his signature color), and he reuses his voice clips from his appearance in New Super Mario Bros. Wii, thus he is voiced by Lani Minella.
There are a few oddities regarding his trophy descriptions across Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS / Wii U. His trophy in the English version claims that he is the leader of the Koopalings. His American Wii U trophy instead calls him the youngest, reflecting his early age description (the European version's trophy, however, was left unchanged for unknown reasons). The title given to Larry in the Boxing Ring is "The Youngest" (NA) or "Leader of the Seven Minions" (PAL) in the Wii U version.

In Super Smash Bros. Ultimate, Larry (alongside the other Koopalings) returns as a playable character accessible via Bowser Jr.'s alternate costumes. He is once again an unlockable character, like in Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS. Just like in the previous game, his attacks and statistics are identical to Bowser Jr.'s, though he is referred to by his own name by the announcer and has his own voice clips. Unlike in Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS / Wii U, all seven Koopalings (Larry included) now use their magic wands for any occasion where Bowser Jr. would use his hammer. These occasions include all corresponding attacks, their side taunt, and one of their victory poses.

In the Super Mario Mash-up in Minecraft, Larry appears as a playable skin along with the rest of the Koopalings.

Larry is included (along with the other Koopalings) as a Boss in the Boss Deck of Monopoly Gamer. He is the first Boss in the deck.

Larry makes his Paper Mario series debut in Paper Mario: Color Splash. In this game, he and a bunch of Bowser’s minions hijack a train, Sunset Express, to get to Starlight Cape, where the orange Big Paint Star is. Mario battles Larry on top of the locomotive. Although not actually seen, he had earlier appeared in the previous level as a VIP diner at the restaurant that Mario had to sub as the head chef due to the original head chef being left severely injured by Shy Guys, where he had Mario prepare for him a massive steak in a pseudo-boss battle. After having the steak, he thanked Mario and stated the restaurant was officially one of his favorite "one and a half star restaurants" before taking his leave. He was always obscured by the drapes, however, leaving him unable to be seen, and he only revealed he was the VIP in question just before the boss fight.
During his battle, at first, if Larry gets damaged, a Shy Guy inserts hearts into the fire chamber so that the smoke from the train replenishes Larry to full health. On the next turn, the conductor of the Sunset Express attempts to chase the Shy Guy out of the cabin, while Larry sends minions to hit him. Once three waves of enemies are defeated, the conductor chases out the Shy Guy and Mario can damage Larry properly. Larry will fire a magic spell at the smokestack to spew out smoke that will hit and cover Mario. On contact, Mario's attacks will always miss, and Larry will evade the effects of Thing Cards by hiding in the smoke. If the Cork Thing Card is used, the smokestack gets clogged with the cork, rendering Larry unable to send smoke out. Larry can attack by jumping on Mario or drop-kicking him. If Mario takes too long to defeat Larry, Larry will jump on Mario five times, instantly defeating him, dealing 36, 54, 72, 90 and 99 damage with each jump for a total of 351 damage. Said attack can be dodged by using the Instant Camera Thing card or its replica and by equipping the Spike Helmet, as Larry will first attack the photograph of Mario with his wand and will then jump on the spike of the helmet, receiving damage and failing the attack. He will then repeat the final attack the next turn. Similarly to other bosses in the game, when an Enemy Card is used during his fight, it will instantly run away.
His Enemy Card serves the same purpose as the other Koopalings' cards, scaring away enemies on the battlefield. 
Like many other paper characters, Larry has black eyes without irises; unlike his previous appearances since his redesign in New Super Mario Bros. Wii, in this game his eyelids appear again, being white instead of green like in artwork for Super Mario World.
Curiously enough, Larry holds his wand in his right hand while idle, but holds it in his left hand when casting a spell. This makes him the only Koopaling to use his left hand while using his wand in Paper Mario Color Splash. 

While Larry and the other Koopalings do not appear in Mario Tennis Aces, their airships can be seen in the background of the Savage Sea court.

Larry appears as a doctor under the name Dr. Larry in Dr. Mario World. He was added alongside Dr. Roy on February 3, 2020. Dr. Larry is available as a special stage reward in World 12. Dr. Larry's skill involves colorful crates, where in stage mode it immediately breaks up to 10 of them (8 prior to version 1.4.0) even if they are covered in another object (e.g. barrels) unless they are locked behind cages, while in versus mode it sends a number of them to the opponent's play area, where they fill in any gaps available starting from the topmost row, followed by left to right. The amount of colorful crates sent differ based on level, where it is two at level 1 and eight at level 4 and 5 (the latter has the added effect of filling the skill meter faster). In stage mode, using this skill when there are no more colorful crates left will eliminate a random virus or object (if there are no viruses left), although capsules cannot be removed by this skill.

Larry and the rest of the Koopalings serve as members of Bowser's racing team in "Mario Kart: Bowser's Challenge". Larry can also be seen in one of the pictures in the queue for "Bowser Jr's Shadow Showdown", serving as a portrait artist for Bowser and Bowser Jr.

Larry was originally going to appear in Super Princess Peach, although he was taken out of the final game with the rest of the Koopalings.

In Super Paper Mario, there is a game named Larry Koopa: Zombie Heartbreaker that Francis owns.

Larry is rather similar to his siblings, sharing the regular yellow and tan skin and green head color. He is set apart by his blue hair (which has been inconsistently alternating between dark and light blue in earlier artwork, until it stuck to light blue from New Super Mario Bros. Wii onward), that are usually combed to resemble a cockscomb, whose appearance remained relatively consistent over time. Another more recent distinguishing and noticeable trait is the blue star on the side of his head, which is similar to Morton's star and the stripes on the side of Lemmy's head; this star was not added until New Super Mario Bros. Wii. With early official information depicting him as much shorter than Mario, Larry is still shorter than Mario in New Super Mario Bros. Wii, but varies in height between games, with his shortest modern appearance being in Mario Kart 8 and his tallest being in Paper Mario: Color Splash, and is overall slightly shorter than Ludwig. Larry has two, fang-like teeth in the upper corners of both sides of his snout, similar to Roy (though, originally, he had four protruding teeth), along with a complete set of teeth as shown in the battle against him and Ludwig in Mario & Luigi: Paper Jam, when he flails his wand against Paper Mario and when he's falling after being hit by his own bomb. His mouth is feline-shaped, as his lips are deeply curved, and his nose is flat; it is relatively the same as Roy's aside from the jawline. He also has a plated belly and padded feet.
He has large, oval eyes that are light blue, like Wendy; however, his in-game sprites in Super Mario World depict them as green due to the SNES's color palette limitations. For the same reason, his hair is depicted as white in his Super Mario Bros. 3 and Super Mario World sprites. Artwork for Super Mario World revealed that he has green eyelids as well, that reappear in Super Mario Chie Asobi Ehon ④ Larry No Itazura (Super Mario Wisdom Games Picture Book ④ Larry's Mischief) and, more recently, Paper Mario: Color Splash, in this latter game being rather white colored. His head is oval-shaped as well. He is on the small side when compared to the others. His shell is also light blue, lined with a white encasing, and the multiple, short spikes are circled with blue rings; originally, his shell was green, as seen in both his artwork and his sprites for Super Mario Bros. 3 and Super Mario World, which was changed to light blue in New Super Mario Bros. Wii. He wears the same metal, spiked cuffs as the other Koopalings.
Larry's appearance in the Super Smash Bros. series is unaltered when compared to most of the Super Mario characters, including Bowser. However, Super Smash Bros. Ultimate gives Larry a slightly darker and subdued color scheme, while his hair, spikes, and shell feature simple detailing, though his scales remain undefined. This trait is shared with Bowser Jr. and the other Koopalings.

Like the other Koopalings, not much of Larry's personality has been revealed. One of his most recurring traits so far has been the care for his hair. Super Mario Chie Asobi Ehon ④ Larry No Itazura (Super Mario Wisdom Games Picture Book ④ Larry's Mischief) showed that he was personally able to comb them into the typical cockscomb, and both Mario & Luigi: Paper Jam as well as Mario & Luigi: Superstar Saga + Bowser's Minions showed him fixing his hair even during battles. One of his lines of dialogue in the Wii U version of Mario & Sonic at the Rio 2016 Olympic Games again confirmed him being concerned about fixing his hair.
His trophy description in Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS describes him with "aggressive tendencies". While this may reference his short temper in Mario & Luigi: Superstar Saga, New Super Mario Bros. Wii, New Super Mario Bros 2 and Mario & Luigi: Paper Jam, this may also have earned him his apparent position as head of the Koopa Troop special forces (which are considered to be the Koopalings themselves in his Super Smash Bros. for 3DS English trophy, his Super Smash Bros. for Wii U U.K. English trophy and his Super Smash Bros. for Wii U Boxing Ring stage screen alias). At least one instance of his short temper was ignited when Starlow insulted Larry by calling him "shrimp", implying that he suffered from a Napoleon complex. The North American version of Super Smash Bros. for Wii U, however, states he has a "serious case of little-brother syndrome", suggesting that he feels overshadowed by or inferior to his older siblings. He also seems to have an interest in sports, as he uses bowling balls in Hotel Mario, he uses a tennis racket to hit his own fireballs in Mario & Luigi: Superstar Saga and he performs a special glider trick when riding sport bikes in Mario Kart 8. Despite this interest, he has never appeared in any of the Super Mario sports games. In the Wii U version of Mario & Sonic at the Rio 2016 Olympic Games, Larry got 'hooked' on Equestrian and cannot seem to stop talking about it to the player. Mario & Luigi: Paper Jam also implies he may have an interest in video games as Roy, after he and Wendy fail to get Larry to help them, says that he is "probably off playing video games or something." New Super Mario Bros. Wii shows that he did not possess a lot of stamina, as he was quite far behind his family, trying to catch his breath, while his siblings were trying to help Bowser up off the ground. Although, this may be due to the fact that he was residing in World 1, presumably the furthest world from Bowser's Castle in World 8. He also frequently gets dizzy after spinning, as shown in Mario & Luigi: Paper Jam, Mario & Luigi: Superstar Saga + Bowser's Minions, Mario & Luigi: Bowser's Inside Story + Bowser Jr.'s Journey when he attacks by spinning his shell, and in his 1st place victory animation in Mario & Sonic at the Rio 2016 Olympic Games and Mario & Sonic at the Tokyo 2020 Olympic Games.
In the Japanese manual for Super Mario Bros. 3, Larry speaks in a masculine manner while thinking lowly of the Mushroom World's kings and suggesting he and his siblings only follow orders because they do not want Bowser to yell at them. The official strategy guide for Super Mario Bros. 3 has Larry being depicted as taunting and arrogant, believing Mario will not deduce his weaknesses, and also has a strange accent where he pronounces "th-" syllables with "d" syllables. In the Wii U version of Mario & Sonic at the Rio 2016 Olympic Games, Larry is shown to speak genuinely in a respectful way sometimes, as shown when the player beats him in Equesterian, where he admits that the player is too good, but then tells them to forget it and says, "Anything I'll say will sound like an excuse. I'll just have to give it my all next time!" In Mario is Missing!, Larry even attempts to talk his way out of being defeated by Luigi when sensing that the latter is about to defeat him. In Mario Kart 8, Larry's silhouette could be seen in the Electrodrome racetrack as a disk jockey, implying that he may have an interest in that profession, or an interest in music in general. The same game also has him operating a business known as Larry Lights, which based on the name implies that he does some electrician or pyrotechnic work. His Prima Official Game Guide bio of the game also states that he is a "cheatsy devil" (which may be a reference to his cartoon counterpart) and an experienced schemer. In volume 41 of Super Mario-Kun, Larry was accused of being a flirt by Blue Toad, as he and his brother caught Larry for hitting on their mother. In Paper Mario: Color Splash, he is shown to be something of a glutton, as evidenced by his (anonymously) having Mario prepare a massive steak and specifically requesting that he wants the best prepared steak, the fact that he uses the train's chimney to revive stamina via hearts that a Shy Guy was delivering to him, and upon being beaten his deeply considering getting some lamb chops. Like in the instruction booklet for Super Mario Bros. 3, Larry also makes clear that his motives for hijacking the train to get the Orange Big Paint Star is specifically to avoid upsetting Bowser, although in this case, he claims he pities Bowser when he is upset due to citing that his disappointed face was "heartbreaking." When he is defeated, Larry ends up stating he will have to go on the lam due to failing Bowser, feeling he cannot face him ever again, although the term "lam" caused him to think of getting lamb chops. When winning a medal, Larry also felt that his horse should at least get something for his hard work, and implies that he intends to get the horse carrots as his way of thanking it.
In The Adventures of the Super Mario Bros. 3 and the Super Mario World animated series, Larry is known as Cheatsy and is given a personality to match his name, as he is sneaky, unfair, and devious. For example, he attempts to double-cross Bowser in his attempt to obtain the Mushroom Kingdom from Princess Peach in "Never Koop a Koopa". He also eavesdrops on a conversation between Mario and Yoshi in "The Yoshi Shuffle". It is also shown that he enjoys listening to music, as shown in the episode "Never Koop a Koopa", where he is ignoring his father's lecture and listening to music on a set of headphones. He seems to be sarcastic too, as shown in "Gopher Bash", he says Don't just help him! Stand there! to his minions. In the PC version of Mario is Missing!, Larry is shown acting tough as the first guard, but shows cowardice once Luigi gains a Fire Flower and has the potential to destroy him. Like Ludwig, he is also into horror to some degree, as seen in Hotel Mario, since the room that the player fights him in is called "Larry's Scary Lair". His hotel itself is very dark and the entrance states, "THIS MINE IS MINE". Larry's hotel tagline may also indicate a greedy side to him, since the name of the hotel shows that Larry is very possessive of his belongings.
While the games do not reveal much about the relationship between Larry and his siblings, both Mario & Luigi: Paper Jam and the 3DS version of Mario & Sonic at the Rio 2016 Olympic Games reveal that Larry has some kind of admiration for Ludwig, whom he tries to imitate, although he still is not able to replicate all his moves without getting dizzy. In the former game, he always fights with Ludwig in the battles and is never seen alone with his other siblings, furthermore he also shows more respect towards him than his brothers, calling him boss and accepting to have him as his lead even after Ludwig's leadership among the Koopalings has been questioned; in battle he also follows him trying to imitate his moves, but gets dizzy after spinning in the shell. In the latter game, Larry's 1st place victory animation starts by imitating Ludwig's 2nd and 3rd place victory animation, but after spinning he again gets dizzy. In Bowser Jr.'s Journey, he was also shown to be very defensive towards Morton, as when Bowser Jr. was chewing him out for "stealing" his glory, Larry cut in and began shouting at Bowser Jr. and telling him off regarding his behavior to Morton.

Like the other Koopalings, Larry has shown the ability to generate magic blasts and spit fireballs, as well as walk, run, jump and spin inside of his shell. He is usually the weakest of the group due to him being faced in battle before the others in most games. However, on some occasions he is actually the last to be fought and his abilities are altered accordingly. In New Super Mario Bros. Wii the only magic he can perform with his wand is to make a low heated blue fire ball. Unlike the other Koopalings, Larry does not show any signs of improvisation, as he keeps his battle tactics mostly the same when the player fights him the second time (neither has he ever used Warp Pipes in his battles, unlike his siblings). In Mario & Luigi: Superstar Saga he has the same stats as Iggy and uses the same technique of spinning around at extreme speeds in order to make his foes dizzy. He is unique in that he uses a tennis racket to spar with the Mario Bros. before the actual battle, and uses the same racket during the battle to send back some of his fireballs intercepted by the Bros. hammers. He is also capable of utilizing poison and burn status effects as a deterrent against Bros. Attacks. In Hotel Mario, he uses bowling balls against them. In New Super Mario Bros. 2, he fires energy blasts at Mario that ricochet against obstacles, similar to Wendy's rings. He also used water geysers to his advantage in his battle in New Super Mario Bros. U. In Super Mario World, Larry shares Iggy's tactics against the Mario Bros. by throwing balls at them that he keeps in his shell. However, he also raises the stakes by having Podoboos periodically jump up, and flings balls at a faster frequency than Iggy. In addition, Larry seems to have superhuman durability, being dunked into lava and survived Mario destroying his castle while he was still in the lava in Super Mario World, for example.
Sprites from Super Princess Peach relating to his planned appearance implied that he would have utilized his spin attack once again against Peach. Similarly, it would have been implied that his Vibe-state during what would have been the second half would have been "Calm."

This a list of all voice actors for Larry Koopa.

In addition to this, the "Animal, Creature - Large Animal Death Scream" stock sound also used for Bowser in some games is used for Larry when he is defeated in Super Mario World: Super Mario Advance 2.