The Mario Golf series is a video game series primarily developed by Camelot Software Planning and published by Nintendo. It stars Mario and other characters of the Super Mario franchise participating in golfing events. The series was preceded by Golf, which starred Mario, who was known as Ossan in this game. A variant of this game called Stroke & Match Golf released for the VS. System had two different versions, one starring Mario and the other starring a lady golfer. The series' namesake Nintendo 64 game, Mario Golf, was released in 1999, and it is often misconceived as the first game of the series, especially in the Western world. Aside from an entirely different handheld counterpart, releases followed one game for both the Nintendo GameCube and the Game Boy Advance, while the sixth installment was released for the Nintendo 3DS in 2014, and a seventh installment was released for the Nintendo Switch in 2021. Some games in the series double as role-playing games, the single-player story modes in particular.
Prior to Mario Golf were three installments of the main series: Golf: Japan Course, Golf: U.S. Course (both released for the Family Computer Disk System in Japan only), and NES Open Tournament Golf, which is titled Mario Open Golf in Japan, more clearly billing it as a Mario Golf title there than to English-speaking audiences.
The N64 and Game Boy Color versions can communicate with each other via Transfer Pak connectivity, and the GameCube and GBA versions can do the same via the Game Link Cable; the connectivity features allow players to upload characters and data from one game into the other.

 
In early Mario Golf games, it is unknown where the golf is taking place. Most games include many clubs to choose from. Stroke & Match Golf and Golf: Japan Course included an extra playable lady golfer.
In NES Open Tournament Golf, the holes are located in Japan, the United States, and the United Kingdom, with other locations appearing in the Japanese version. In single-player mode, only Mario is playable, but Luigi is playable in multiplayer, and other pre-existing Super Mario characters make smaller appearances. Luigi and several original characters appear as opponents. 
In Camelot's Mario Golf games, players can play as a variety of recurring Super Mario characters, including Mario, Luigi, Princess Peach, Baby Mario, Yoshi, Donkey Kong, Wario, and Bowser among others. The first- and second-generation Mario Golf games also feature original human characters created by Camelot specifically for these games, such as Kid, Plum, Sonny, and Harry; none of these characters have made any reappearances outside the series save for Plum, who has appeared as a trophy in Super Smash Bros. Melee and as a sticker in Super Smash Bros. Brawl, and Kid, who has appeared in Super Smash Bros. Ultimate as a spirit.
Mario Golf games are typical golf games, where the player's objective is to hit the ball into the hole by using as few strokes as possible. The games in the series specifically have simplified "pick-up-and-play" type gameplay, which does away with many of the complicated real-life aspects of golf as found in other games relating to the sport. However, despite the simplicity of the games' appearance and play style, they run on very deep game engines. Before each swing, the player chooses a club, a general direction, and a range for the ball to travel. During the swing, the player determines power by timing a button press for a marker to stop at the desired point on a power meter; at this point, the player can choose to influence the direction of the ball by applying spin. Players can alternate between auto and manual shots, with the latter providing the player with more control, albeit at a higher risk of a poor shot. Many of these gameplay aspects, such as spin, are affected by characters' individual statistics. These relate to features such as control of the ball and the general height of shots, which determines how much the character's play is affected by environmental factors such as wind, rain, and relief of the land. The first- and second-generation Mario Golf home console games also have characters use recorded voice samples to comment on their opponents' shots.
Mario Golf games contain several gameplay modes and variants of golf, including the traditional stroke and match play, speed golf, ring shot, mini golf, and skins match. The main mode is "Tournament Mode," where the player competes against artificial intelligence (AI) opponents on a series of courses to win trophies. With the progression of the series, new modes were introduced, such as "Character Match," where characters battle computer-designated AI opponents to be upgraded into "star characters" and gain statistical enhancements; "Coin Attack," where players can collect coins scattered around courses; and "Ring Attack," where players are required to direct the ball through rings of varying locations, angles, and diameter while keeping on or under par.
The courses in Mario Golf games are based on traditional locations within the Super Mario franchise, such as the grounds of Peach's Castle in the Mushroom Kingdom. As the series progressed, more complex terrain and exotic features were introduced into courses, and courses were designed to resemble real-life golf courses. More advanced courses offer a higher frequency of difficult terrain and elevation, as in bunkers, which limit the accuracy and range of shots. There are also hazards themed after the Super Mario universe: These include lava pits, Thwomps, Chain Chomps, etc., which will incur one-shot penalties if landed on, as will water sections and out-of-bounds areas; and Warp Pipes, which can change the location of the ball.
The handheld Mario Golf games are styled after role-playing games. They feature an overworld map, where the player can walk around and interact with different courses, characters, and objects. There are golfing clubs that hold tournaments. The player controls a golf player (either male or female) and aims to win the aforementioned tournaments. There are also side courses where the player can train or earn special clubs. Each of the courses has two places of interest: the main golf course and the practice area. The main course is accessed by entering tourneys or playing practice rounds, and the practice area allows players to test their skill with minigames.
In the first handheld Mario Golf and Advance Tour, the golfing clubs are named Marion, Palms, Dunes, and Links. The player character achieves the goal of becoming the "ultimate golfer" by winning the tournaments in the aforementioned clubs, defeating their champions in match games, and earning the right to engage in a one-on-one match against Mario, who in the context of these games is the world's ultimate golfing champion. In addition to its main course and practice area, Marion features a third place of interest: the clubhouse, which is where the player characters are based and can talk to other golfers. By progressing through the game and completing its various elements, the player can gain experience to distribute among the two characters to enhance both their drive and their hitting capabilities. As a character levels up in those games, they gain stat points to improve their abilities.

The second and third generations of Mario Golf consisted of one home console title and one handheld title; each pair of titles had content transferable from one game to the other. Using the Nintendo 64's Transfer Pak, players were able to upload characters and data found in the Game Boy Color version to the Nintendo 64 version, meaning that the players exclusive to the Game Boy game could be seen and played as in full 3D. Data from the Nintendo 64 version was also saved onto the Game Boy Color cartridge. Transfer Pak functionality is not included in the Virtual Console release. The connectivity functions returned when players were able to use the Nintendo GameCube–Game Boy Advance Link Cable to transfer characters between Toadstool Tour and Advance Tour. These functions are absent from later entries of the series, as these games do not have a respective counterpart.

In the nine installments of the Mario Golf series, many Super Mario characters appear. Human characters unique to the Mario Golf series, such as Kid, appear in dark cells.

1 - The character is unlockable, but available by default in multiplayer.
2 - The character is unlockable.
3 - The character is available as paid DLC.
4 - The character was added through a free update.
5 - The character is only playable in Story Mode.
6 - The character is unlocked by transfering from partner version
7 - The character is unlockable through Mobile Adapter GB DLC
8 - The character is unlockable in the Prize Card version or with a disk registered with the Disk Fax service.

Speed Golf is a recurring game mode that has appeared in nearly every main installment of the Mario Golf series. The game mode's rules throughout the series are to complete a course (or a three-, six-, or nine-hole section of it) as fast as possible, and the player is timed through each hole on how long the player has spent on each one. It can usually be played against a CPU or alone, and any course can be chosen. In Mario Golf: Super Rush, players must run to the balls in order to hit them until they enter the hole.