Nipper Plants, also known as Walking Piranhas (also misspelled as Walking Piranas), White Piranhas, White Piranha Plants, and Baby Piranha Plants, are enemies introduced in Super Mario Bros. 3. They are small Piranha Plants with white heads and short green stems with two leaves on either side.

They first appear in Super Mario Bros. 3, where they would either patrol an area or wait in place, with both jumping up towards the player when they pass over them. Walking Piranhas can hop around, making it more difficult for the player to land safely, since the plants will harm the player if they attempt to stomp on one. Instead, Walking Piranhas can be defeated by invincibility, Fire Mario's fireballs, Hammer Mario's hammers, Raccoon and Tanooki Mario's tail attack and the latter's Statue form. In subsequent remakes, they were tinted a shade of pink. In all versions, a jumping Walking Piranha is a recolor of two Muncher frames.
A sessile, fire-breathing variety is encountered at the end of World 7-8, and is the only one in the entirety of the game. 

Nipper Plants return in Super Mario Bros. Wonder, this time with the ability to walk on walls and ceilings. They no longer jump towards the players when they pass over them, however. Nipper Plants are featured prominently in Muncher Fields.

Nipper Plants make a few appearances in The Adventures of Super Mario Bros. 3. In these appearances, they behave much like their game counterparts in that they are capable of hopping around. On the show, Nipper Plants sport visible jaws that make them appear to be more menacing than their in-game counterparts.
In "Reign Storm", Mario intends to send via Warp Pipe a letter to Princess Toadstool, in which he prompts her to return to the Mushroom Kingdom. However, a Nipper Plant that was taking shelter inside the Warp Pipe intercepts and eats Mario's letter. The Nipper Plant then travels to King Koopa to inform him about the letter's content.
In "A Toadally Magical Adventure", Cheatsy Koopa uses a Magic Wand to increase a Nipper Plant's size and sends it to attack Mario. However, the plant lunges at the pipe creature that was having Mario in its grip, accidentally releasing Mario. Of note is that Cheatsy only refers to the Nipper Plant as "Piranha Plant".

Artwork of Nipper Plants appears in Super Mario Bros. Print World, but they are incorrectly labeled as Munchers, the similar, but black-colored enemy from Super Mario Bros. 3 (which the poses of the artwork are borrowed from). There is additional artwork of Mario jumping over a Nipper Plant, labeled as "Mario 1".

Wendy O. Koopa is revealed to have a pet Nipper Plant, which she keeps in a pot in her room, in Koopa Capers; the plant had shredded a note possibly pertaining to her whereabouts. If Luigi chooses to begin his search for the missing Koopaling by looking through her room, he accidentally wakes up the sleeping Nipper Plant when he tries to look under it. Some wild Nipper Plants later appear prowling the stairs leading up to the secret camp being used by Wendy and her rebellion.

Nipper Plants are enemies in Super Mario World 2: Yoshi's Island and its reissue. They do not jump at the player and are much easier to defeat, but they appear in groups which adds to the challenge of defeating them. This is the first game to show Nipper Plants to hatch from Nipper Spores upon touching the ground, as well as to show them without eyes. These Nipper Plants can be stomped or eaten and turned into eggs; their spores can also be swallowed, though no eggs will be produced as a result. Nipper Plants appear in both sequels, Yoshi's Island DS and Yoshi's New Island, behaving the same as before; the former game introduces a relative to Nipper Plants, the Nipper Dandelion.
Outside of the Yoshi's Island series, Nipper Plants are also enemies in Yoshi's Story, Yoshi's Woolly World, its Nintendo 3DS version, and Yoshi's Crafted World, retaining their behavior from Super Mario World 2: Yoshi's Island. However, in Yoshi's Story, if the Nipper Spore is eaten, a Yoshi will lose health (except for the Black Yoshi and the White Yoshi).

Chompweeds (also parsed as chompweeds) are enemies in Super Mario RPG: Legend of the Seven Stars and its remake. They appear in the Pipe Vault, and cannot be battled. Rather than fighting the player, they jump up and steal a few coins if they get too close. Stolen coins cannot be recovered in the final game, but battle data for them still exists, suggesting that they may have been intended to be standard enemies at one point. Another potential artifact of this is them being among the enemies that can be thrown in the Monster Toss attack. Aside from this, it also was one of the incorrect answers to Dr. Topper's quiz section in the Trial Course, specifically for "What's the first monster you see in the Pipe Vault?" This answer only exists in the English version; it is Exdeath from Final Fantasy V in Japanese and Korean, a wild Chomp in Spanish and Italian, a Shy Guy in Chinese, a Wiggler in Dutch, and a made-up Röhrenfriede ("Pipe-peace") in German.

Nipper Plants appear in the Modern versions of Donkey Kong Jr. in Game & Watch Gallery 3 and Game & Watch Gallery 4.

Some Nipper Plants make background appearances on the right side of Bananan Ruins in Mario Kart Arcade GP. They also appear in the courses in the Bowser Cup.

Nipper Plants are enemies in Super Princess Peach. They are identical to the ones that appeared in Super Mario World 2: Yoshi's Island. The game also introduces a variety infused with the Gloom vibe, Sad N. Plants.

Nipper Plants appear as background enemies in Mario & Luigi: Dream Team. In battle, a Piranha Plant may spit out Nipper Spores into the background, each one instantly becoming a Nipper Plant. Once created, they shoot fireballs at Mario individually, which he must deflect with his hammer to avoid taking damage and to also randomly hit the Piranha Plants in the process.
Occasionally, a Piranha Plant will spit a fireball towards the Nipper Plant, who will bounce the fireball about until each Nipper Plant has touched the fireball at some point, where the last Nipper Plant to touch it sends the fireball towards Mario, who must hammer it back at the Piranha Plant who created it to counter-attack and avoid taking damage. The Nipper Plants are defeated when the Piranha Plant that spawned them is defeated. They can also be defeated by throwing a Taunt Ball at them.

In the Super Mario Mash-up in Minecraft, Peonies are replaced by a group of Nipper Plants.

In Mario Tennis Aces, two Nipper Plants can be seen bouncing in the background of Petey Piranha's battle in the Forest Monster mission.

A Nipper Plant appears as a Novice-class Grab-type primary spirit in Super Smash Bros. Ultimate. The spirit can be enhanced to a Petey Piranha spirit at level 99. The Nipper Plant spirit battle takes place on the Battlefield form of the Super Mario Maker stage and involves eight tiny Pac-Men. The spirit can be earned by either winning the battle or purchasing it from Beedle's Tent for 500 SP.
On the Palutena's Temple stage, Nipper Plants are mentioned briefly by Viridi during Palutena's Guidance dialogue for Piranha Plant.

Nipper Plants appear as enemies in Paper Mario: The Origami King. In battle, Nipper Plants face either straight or upwards, and attack by biting Mario either solo or with a barrage of bites. If Nipper Plants are facing upwards, they cannot be jumped on without a type of Iron Boots. Nipper Plants are first fought in the purple streamer area, and reappear in the Spring of Jungle Mist.
Nipper Plants are mentioned to spit fire in the Musée Champignon description for them, although this does not happen in-game. The code for Nipper Plants does allow them to use a fire attack, but the attack itself has no data, so it is never used.

Nipper Plants are background elements in WarioWare: Get It Together!. They appear outside of 9-Volt's House during the opening cutscene of 9-Volt's level.

A 2017 interview reveals that Nipper Plants were going to appear in Super Mario World, as shown in a prototype sprite sheet.