Super Mario-kun (stylised as SUPER MARIO KUN in Super Mario Maker) is a Japanese-published Super Mario manga series written by Yukio Sawada and published by Shogakukan. The manga has been serialized monthly in CoroCoro Comic since November 1990 with the first tankōbon released in July 1991. They contain many of the characters and scenarios retellings of various Super Mario games, including Super Mario World and Paper Mario. Some events in the books do not happen in games. 
The series is aimed at children, and it features different twists on the stories. It contains some crude humor, puns, breaking the fourth wall, nudity, and slapstick violence. There are also a few puzzles (such as mazes and objects hidden in scenes) to be solved throughout the installments.
Starting in August 2014, the Super Mario-kun series has been released for the "Bookstore Anywhere" application on Nintendo 3DS in Japan. The series has been released in bundles of ten volumes up to volume 57, and are available for ¥4,400 each. The first set containing volumes one through ten was released on August 27, 2014 the second set on September 24, the third on October 29, and the fourth on November 26.
In December 2014, Soleil Productions began to publish a French localization of the series in its Soleil Manga collection, titled Super Mario: Manga Adventures. A Spanish translation by Planeta DeAgostini under the name Super Mario Aventuras has started to be released since late November 2016.
A "best of" collection titled Super Mario Manga Mania was compiled in September 2017, which was later translated to English by VIZ Media and released on December 8, 2020. Another best-of collection was released in April 2023 in the form of Super Mario-kun Special Selection, starting with a remake of the first ever chapter of the manga series.
To celebrate the manga series' 25th anniversary, Mario's Super Mario-kun design was added as a Costume Mario in Super Mario Maker. The costume is unlocked by clearing the "SUPER MARIO KUN 25th Anniversary" Event Course.

Below are the covers of all of the volumes, up to the most recent. Some of this information is speculated, due to a limited amount of information about these comics in regions other than Japan.

Below is brief information on the compilations of Super Mario-kun, up to the most recent.