A Super Leaf is a power-up item introduced in Super Mario Bros. 3. Touching one turns the user into their Raccoon form, giving them raccoon ears and a raccoon tail, the latter of which lets them glide, fly after a running start, and tail whip.

Super Leaves first appear in the game Super Mario Bros. 3. The item transforms Mario or Luigi into Raccoon Mario or Raccoon Luigi, respectively. Mario or Luigi can descend slowly by wagging the tail (by tapping ); he can briefly fly instead if he fills the Power Meter (by running) beforehand. Mario or Luigi can also tail whip (by pressing ) to hit blocks and enemies. In the Family Computer and Nintendo Entertainment System version, Super Leaves are green while in the inventory or taken inside Toad Houses, and brown when found in a level.
Additionally, the rarer Tanooki Suit grants the same abilities as the Super Leaf, while also letting Mario and Luigi turn into a statue. The P-Wing also turns Mario or Luigi into the Raccoon form, but with infinite flight for one level.

The Super Leaf was going to appear in Super Mario World, but it was scrapped. The final game introduces a similar power-up, the Cape Feather.

Super Leaves appear in Super Mario 3D Land. They were redesigned by being given stripes, eyes, and a hole. Aside from being power-up items, Super Leaves have a role in the plot: The opening cutscene shows that they grow from the Tail Tree, but are stolen by Bowser to power-up his minions, giving them "Tail" forms to attack and flutter around. In gameplay, Super Leaves turn Mario or Luigi into his full-suited Tanooki forms, though the latter's is distinctly called Kitsune Luigi. The Tanooki forms granted by Super Leaves still act as Raccoon Mario, but without flight. Gliding is executed by holding  or , rather than tapping the buttons. The tail whip is still done by pressing  or .
Two new Leaf power-ups are introduced. The Invincibility Leaf turns the player character into White Tanooki Mario, granting him invincibility for the level, while the Statue Leaf provides the added ability of turning into a statue, a function originally from the Tanooki Suit in Super Mario Bros. 3.

Super Leaves appear in New Super Mario Bros. 2. Unlike in Super Mario 3D Land, the gameplay mechanics, including the P-Meter, are the same as in Super Mario Bros. 3. Similarly to Super Mario 3D Land, Luigi has another distinct form of his own, named Fox Luigi. The Invincibility Leaf also appears.

Super Leaves appear in Super Mario 3D World and its port. They are encountered in as early as World 3, and are less common than in Super Mario 3D Land. Super Leaves are still used in the same manner, granting the Tanooki form. Tanooki Peach will use her floating ability before using the form's gliding ability. The Invincibility Leaf and its Assist Block also return, still granting the White Tanooki form, as in Super Mario 3D Land.

The Super Leaf appears in Super Mario Maker, its port, and Super Mario Maker 2, exclusively in for the Super Mario Bros. 3 style.

Super Leaves themselves do not appear physically in Super Mario Odyssey. However, there are two references: the Tail Tree makes an appearance in the Mushroom Kingdom, and the Lost Kingdom's regional coins look similar to Super Leaves. Additionally, a green Super Leaf was used in concept art for Princess Peach's mask worn in Bowser's Kingdom, but was instead replaced by a Boo design in the final game.

Super Leaves appear in Super Mario Maker 2. They have the same properties as in Super Mario Maker, but move upwards in the nighttime ground theme.

In the Nintendo Comics System comic book story "It's Always Fair Weather", Super Leaves are grown on a plant labeled as "Magic Leaf Raccoonius".

The Super Leaf commonly appears in The Adventures of Super Mario Bros. 3, appearing in almost every episode.
In "Sneaky Lying Cheating Giant Ninja Koopas", Mario and Luigi use a Super Leaf to escape from an Angry Sun and fight the Koopalings at Prince Hugo's castle. Annoyed at Raccoon Mario and Raccoon Luigi's distraction, powered-up Big Mouth effortlessly blows away Mario, causing him to crash into a pipe and get bitten by a Piranha Plant, while he jabs and captures Luigi.
In "Mind Your Mummy Mommy, Mario", Raccoon Luigi tows his Steam Cloud Balloon, which Princess Toadstool and Toad are riding in, into Kastle Koopa. Before they make it, however, they get caught in a Mushroom Kingdom twister and crash-land on one of the castle's towers.
In "Never Koop a Koopa", when escaping Kastle Koopa, Mario searches for Super Leaves by bashing blocks in the ceiling after Toad comments that they would be free if they could fly. Later on, when Cheatsy Koopa usurps King Koopa's throne and informs him that Mario, Luigi, Princess Toadstool and Toad are all locked in his bedroom as prisoners, they both witness them flying out of the castle in their raccoon forms.
In "Toddler Terrors of Time Travel", at the end of the episode, Raccoon Mario and Raccoon Luigi return to the present day and stop King Koopa and Kooky von Koopa from making Princess Toadstool surrender the Mushroom Kingdom to them by throwing a drain clog from earlier at Koopa, which prompts them to retreat into a Warp Pipe. Despite being in their raccoon forms, Mario and Luigi transforming into said forms via a Super Leaf is not shown.
In "A Toadally Magical Adventure", when being held by a pipe creature, Mario transforms into Raccoon Mario after gaining a Super Leaf from a Jump Block and escapes.
In "Misadventures in Babysitting", Mario and Luigi each find Super Leaves when fleeing from a flood of lava in the Pipe Maze with Junior, who they then grab ahold of and fly into a Warp Pipe to escape.
In "Do the Koopa", when needing to cross a wide gap in Dark Land's Temple of Gloom, Mario breaks blocks containing Super Leaves after Toad suggests he does. Mario, Luigi, Princess Toadstool and Toad then transform into their raccoon forms and fly over the gap. However, the group are later reverted back to their normal forms after taking damage from two Koopa statues.
In "Mush-Rumors", Mario and Luigi don their raccoon forms when rescuing a family of real-world residents from the Koopalings, which they keep for the remainder of the episode.
In "Crimes R Us", Mario uses a Super Leaf (while Luigi uses a Fire Flower to transform into Fire Luigi) when they discover that the Koopalings are pulling a bank heist at the First Mushroom Bank. When fighting the Koopalings, Raccoon Mario uses his tail to whack a sack of Gold Coins out of Bully Koopa's hands and into Hip and Hop. Mario loses his raccoon form when Kootie Pie wrap him up in a stolen fur scarf. Later on in the episode, Mario gets another Super Leaf from a Jump Block by luring a Boom Boom towards him.
In "Up, Up, and a Koopa", Mario and Luigi find Super Leaves from bashing blocks with their fists and proclaim that they will fly to Koopa's Doomship and destroy the Koopas' Kooper-Dooper Raiser-Upper. They then carry Emperor Ed to his castle in Sky Land, while Ed gives directions. Later on, the Mario Bros. fly onto a porthole of the Doomship, when King Koopa spots them and traps the brothers in a cage, causing them to lose their raccoon powers.
In "7 Continents for 7 Koopas", Mario, Luigi and Toad use their raccoon forms they can fly up to King Koopa's Doom Ship and rescue Princess Toadstool, but lose them when crashing into a large, spherical force field appears in the Warp Pipe that the Doom Ship went through. The three later regain their raccoon forms and attempt to pull the force field out of the pipe using a giant plunger, but end up pulling the plunger off the force field, flinging themselves onto the ground and losing their raccoon forms.
In "True Colors", Raccoon Mario and Raccoon Luigi chase away a swarm of Para-Goombas and Para-Beetles.
In "Recycled Koopa", Mario and co. collect Super Leaves from blocks and transform into their raccoon forms to flee from a Koopaling attack at the princess' castle.
In "Super Koopa", King Koopa uses the Power Pendant to use a Super Leaf and transform into "Raccoon Koopa". When Mario, Luigi and the submarine captain are imprisoned in the Bastille, Mario gets a Super Leaf from a Super Block smuggled in by Toad and uses his raccoon powers to break down a wall in his cell, allowing him, Luigi and the captain to escape. When Toad sees Raccoon Koopa in the sky, he tosses a Super Leaf to Luigi, allowing him to transform as well. Raccoon Mario and Raccoon Luigi pursue Raccoon Koopa, but Koopa whacks Mario and reverts him back to normal, and Luigi catches him before he can fall.

A Super Leaf appears in volume 4 of Super Mario-kun, although the arc deals primarily with Super Mario World. Luigi, who is apparently controlled by Boos, traps Mario and Yoshi with a rope. Mario hits a ? Block, and he grabs the Super Leaf that appears and transforms into Raccoon Mario. He then frees Yoshi and himself and knocks the Boos from Luigi, returning Luigi to normal.

In Nintendo Puzzle Collection, Super Leaves make a very brief appearance in Yoshi no Cookie, appearing on flags held by Toad audience members at the beginning of a Versus Mode match. 

The Super Leaf can be seen as the logo for the Leaf Cup in Mario Kart DS, Mario Kart Wii, Mario Kart 7, Mario Kart 8, Mario Kart 8 Deluxe and Mario Kart Live: Home Circuit. As of Mario Kart 7, the Super Mario 3D Land redesign is used for the logo.

Super Leaves are items in Mario Kart 7. They can be obtained if the player is anywhere from 1st to 4th place, with CPUs being unable to obtain it in 1st place in VS races. Here, they create a striped tail on the back of the kart which doubles as an offensive and defensive feature. Pressing  or  swings the tail which can hit other karts, collect coins, and protect the player's kart from other items such as Green Shells. However, if the tail is hit by shells while idle, it disappears. When activated, the Super Leaf lasts for 10 seconds, or until the player spins out, tumbles over, or is hit by a Spiny Shell. The Tanooki Mario transformation sound from Super Mario Advance 4: Super Mario Bros. 3 plays when the tail is equipped, and the tail whip sound from the same game plays when it is used.
The tail replaces the kart's propeller when used underwater, and it lengthens air glides.

The Super Leaf is an item in Mario Kart Tour starting from the 2021 Autumn Tour. It is the special skill of Tanooki Mario, Tanooki Rosalina and Kitsune Luigi. It functions similarly to its appearance in Mario Kart 7, with some additional functions: nearby coins are drawn to the player when used, similarly to the Boomerang Flower, and the player will hover in the air while using the item, which prevents the player from performing Jump Boosts, similarly to the Bubble. To use the item, the player has to tap the screen once, causing the tail to spin multiple times before disappearing. When Super Leaf+ is active, the player will have their movement speed increased when using the item.

Super Leaves were originally going to be in Paper Mario: Sticker Star, but were removed and likely replaced with Tail stickers.

A single Super Leaf appears in Mario's Figure Skating Spectacular in Mario & Sonic at the Sochi 2014 Olympic Winter Games. It appears after defeating the Tail Bowser, similarly to Super Mario 3D Land.

The Super Leaf is an item in Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS, Super Smash Bros. for Wii U, and Super Smash Bros. Ultimate. It transforms fighters into the Raccoon form, allowing them to float in the air horizontally for a few seconds by holding the jump button.

Super Leaves make only two minor appearances in the Mario Party series. In the Mario Party 10 minigame Shape Up, the shadow of a Super Leaf mobile can be seen in the background. In Mario Party: Star Rush, Super Leaves can be requested to be bought by some Toads in the minigame One-Stop Toad Shop.

In the Super Mario Mash-up of Minecraft, Lily Pads are replaced with green Super Leaves.

Although Super Leaves themselves do not appear physically in Mario & Luigi: Paper Jam, a rank based on the item does.

The Super Leaf appears as one of the six metallic playing tokens in the Monopoly: Super Mario Celebration! board game.

In The Super Mario Bros. Movie, while fighting Bowser's minions alongside Donkey Kong, Mario loses his Super Mario transformation after taking a hit from one of Bowser's minions, but briefly powers up again afterward after a small struggle to grab a Super Leaf, which grants Mario his Tanooki Mario form, like its appearances in Super Mario 3D Land, Super Mario 3D World, and Bowser's Fury. Afterward, Mario uses the power-up to fight off more of Bowser's minions, rescue Luigi, intercept Bowser and Princess Peach's wedding, and stop a Bomber Bill from striking Peach's Castle. He loses the power-up after being blown away by the impact of the Bomber Bill's blast and colliding into Bowser's ship. Unlike its appearances in the aforementioned games, Tanooki Mario is fully capable of flight within the film.