Toadette is a Toad character who first appeared as an unlockable playable character and Toad's default partner in Mario Kart: Double Dash!!. Toadette has since appeared in various other games of the Super Mario franchise as a playable or supporting character, and is the most commonly recurring female Toad in the Super Mario franchise. Toadette has been shown to be on good terms with Mario, Luigi, and their friends, sometimes helping them on their adventures. Toadette's defining traits are her bouncing pigtails, cheerful and energetic personality, and occasional bursts of creativity.

Toadette makes her debut in Mario Kart: Double Dash!! as Toad's racing partner and an unlockable character. Both Toad and Toadette can be unlocked by completing the Special Cup in 100cc. Additionally, she has her own kart, the Toadette Kart. It can be unlocked by completing the Mushroom Cup in Mirror Mode. Both characters are in the lightweight class, and their special item is the Golden Mushroom. Her artwork depicts her as having a scarlet red dress and maroon vest, though in her in-game model, she has a pink dress and bright red vest.

While Toadette herself does not make an appearance as a playable racer in the arcade exclusive Mario Kart Arcade GP 2, she receives a notable cameo in the race course Yoshi Park 2 where large paper cut out structures of Toadette as well as Toad and Toadsworth (done in the artwork style of the Yoshi games) can be seen within the Trick House section of the course.

Toadette returns to the Mario Kart series as an unlockable character in Mario Kart Wii. She can be unlocked by playing all thirty-two courses in Time Trials, winning 1,000 WFC races, or playing 2,550 races. It is stated in the guide for Mario Kart Wii that Toadette was excited after getting permission from Peach to race and even stated that she is Toad's sister, though this is unconfirmed. Toadette is again billed in the lightweight class, and she is able to use all the small-sized karts and bikes, each one being recolored white and magenta to match her default color scheme. Toadette is the only lightweight to have an off-road bonus, which is rivaled by that of Dry Bowser. She also has a minor speed bonus, which is rivaled by that of Rosalina, Baby Peach, and the player's Mii.

	
Toadette appears as an unlockable playable character in Mario Kart 8. She is one of the heavier lightweights (she shares this trait with Toad, Koopa Troopa, Shy Guy, Lakitu, Larry, Wendy, and Isabelle), outweighing Lemmy Koopa and the babies, while still being lighter than Peach, Daisy and Yoshi.
Toadette, along with Rosalina and Wendy, appears on two of the four "Women of Racing Organization' posters seen around the track of N64 Royal Raceway. 
Toadette is the Normal Staff Ghost for Toad Harbor. She is also the only character from E3 2013 to be unlockable, making her the only unlockable character to appear on the loading screen.
Toadette, along with the other characters, returns in Mario Kart 8 Deluxe, an enhanced port of Mario Kart 8 for Nintendo Switch. She is now available from the start and shares stats with only Wendy and Isabelle. She is also the 200cc Staff Ghost for N64 Toad's Turnpike. Peachette, a powered-up version of Toadette, also appears as a playable character as part of Wave 6 of the Booster Course Pass. As such, Toadette has the same CPU vehicle parts and rivals as Peachette, and won't appear as a CPU if the latter is present in the race and vice versa, although both appear in the photoMedia:MK8DXThankYouEndScreen.jpg which appears at the end of the credits for the Booster Course Pass.

Toadette appears in Mario Kart Tour as one of the starting playable characters, with the others being Toad and Peachette. However, if Toad or Peachette is the player's starting character instead, Toadette appears as an unlockable character. She is classified as a Super driver and her special skill is the Triple Mushrooms.
Multiple alternate form variants of Toadette appear in the game. Toadette (Explorer), a variant that is based on her design from Captain Toad: Treasure Tracker, was added in the 2020 Exploration Tour and has the Double Bob-ombs special skill. A variant in sailor attire, Toadette (Sailor), debuted in the Ocean Tour and has the Mushroom Cannon special skill. Other variants include Builder Toadette and Penguin Toadette.
Alongside Toadette, Peachette also appears as a playable character. The Pink Mushmellow, a kart first obtainable in the 2019 Paris Tour, is based off of her. Toadette has her own cup that rotates in and out of tours, boosting Toadette up one tier on its courses; however, this does not boost any of her variants. She was one of the team representatives in the Toad vs. Toadette Tour.

In Paper Mario: The Thousand-Year Door, Toadette appears whenever Mario discovers a new hammer upgrade or a new pair of Boots. Toadette hosts a tutorial session with Mario and explains how to use the new ability (a role similar to Toad's in Super Mario RPG: Legend of the Seven Stars), and whenever Mario uses a new item on the first try correctly, she blushes. During her last tutorial with Mario, Toadette runs off in tears of emotions, knowing she will not see him for the rest of the adventure. After Punio returns to Boggly Woods, Toadette leaves a message on the notice board in Rogueport wondering where he went. If Mario attempts to fix the Happy Lucky Lottery and is caught, Lucky mentions that he had to tell Toadette she will not be able to play. He also claims that this caused her to "burst into tears".
Due to Toadette sharing her Japanese name with Vanna T. from Paper Mario, there is a mistranslation in the German and Spanish versions of the game, where Toadette is incorrectly referred to using Vanna T.'s name. This was fixed in the Nintendo Switch remake, where Toadette is referred to by her actual name.

Both Toadette and Toad have a brief cameo appearance in the opening for Mario Power Tennis as a team competing in the tournament, as shown on the scoreboard.

Toadette makes her Mario Tennis playable debut as an unlockable character in Mario Tennis: Ultra Smash. She is considered a Tricky type character, meaning that her shots curve to throw her opponents off. Due to her small body frame, she has lower reach than average, though her lunge is quick and long-ranged. Toadette is unlocked by participating in 10 Mega Battles or buying her for 5,000 coins. As all unlockable characters, she becomes starred when she is unlocked.

Toadette returns as a playable character in Mario Tennis Aces. Unlike in Mario Tennis: Ultra Smash however, Toadette is classified as a Technical character. Her Trick Shots are "Cutesy Turn" for forwards and "Cheerful Skip" for sideways. Her Special Shot is referred to as the "Hop Skip Jump". Toadette dons a tennis outfit as an alternate costume, which is obtained from participating in the May 2019 or November 2019 Online Tournaments, alongside Toad's tennis outfit.

Toadette has become a recurring character in the Mario Party series since her debut in the series in Mario Party 6. In Mario Party 6, Toadette is unlocked by paying the Star Bank thirty Power Stars. This game finalizes her clothing colors as being a pink dress with a red vest.

Toadette appears as a co-host in Mario Party Advance. She hosts Party Land alongside Toad and is the only host of Challenge Land, and also hosts Duel Dash.

Toadette returns playable in Mario Party 7. Unlike the precedent, Mario Party 6, she does not need to be unlocked. In this game, Toad is her default partner and they share the same special orb, the Triple 'Shroom Orb, which allows her and Toad to roll two dice blocks for three turns.

Toadette reappears as a default playable character in Mario Party 8 and her default partner is once again Toad. She is the only playable character here to not appear in Mario Party 9.

Though not a playable participant, Toadette appears as one of the Board Hosts in Mario Party DS with her own board, Toadette's Music Room. Toadsworth is going to conduct her music recital, but a Hammer Bro sabotages their plans by wrecking Toadette's Music Room and breaking many of her instruments. Toadette has to enlist the help of Mario and the gang to counter the threat and to expel Hammer Bro. She also keeps the music stand from her would-be recital in her room afterward, along with two mysterious Metronomes that only Toadsworth knows the secrets of. Toadette also appears as a target in the minigame Hot Shots where thirty points are deducted if hit. Mario Party DS also states that after Peach heard Toadette played an inspiring music piece, she gave her a set of trumpets. Peach felt inspired when she discovered how happy Toadette was to receive them.

Toadette makes a return in Mario Party 10, after being absent from Mario Party 9. She is an unlockable playable character, along with Spike, similar to her appearance as an unlockable character in Mario Party 6. She can be unlocked after being purchased for 600 Party Points. She is available in any mode except amiibo Party.

Toadette is an unlockable playable character in Mario Party: Star Rush. When players recruit her in the Toad Scramble mode, she can make flowers bloom to release coins, having the same ability as Peach and Daisy. Her Dice Block, the Cutie Dice Block, rolls only 3's and 4's, being the only die that always rolls at least a 3. She is unlocked once players earn enough party points to reach level 4. Toadette is the only playable character in the game to not have an amiibo, and thus cannot reap benefits from amiibo usage, including being used in Mario Shuffle.

Toadette returns in Mario Party: The Top 100 as a non-playable character. In this game, she serves as one of the game's hosts (alongside Toad); she hosts the Championship Battles mode. She also appears in the minigame Rocky Road, with both her and Toad replacing the Shy Guy as the minigame was in Mario Party 6, where she is the end goal for the winning team.

Toadette reappears in Super Mario Party as a non-playable character hosting the game alongside Toad. Mario and friends, including Toad and Toadette, gather around, arguing about who should be crowned "Super Star". Mario suggests that a party should be held to determine who becomes the Super Star, with Toad and Toadette agreeing to serve as judges of the competition. Toadette guards the stars on each board, which the player has to collect in order to win. Occasionally, when the player talks to her in the Party Plaza, she mentions that she should start playing for a change.

Toadette reappears in Mario Party Superstars, reprising her role in Super Mario Party as the host of the Star Exchange. Unlike in Super Mario Party, when Toadette changes spaces, she will simply fly off-screen and then descend back down to the new Star Exchange, instead of being seen floating across the board. She also acts as the operator of the Friend House in Village Square.

Toadette reappears in Super Mario Party Jamboree, returning as a playable character for the first time since Mario Party: Star Rush.

During Dance Dance Revolution: Mario Mix, Toadette opens a hotel by the sea in World 2-1. However, because of the chaos caused by the removal of the Music Keys from Truffle Towers, her hotel becomes twisted like a corkscrew. Mario/Luigi and Toad arrive, and Toadette condemns them for turning her hotel into a corkscrew. At the request of Toadette, Mario/Luigi and Toad along with Toadette and the guests, use the power of dancing to return her hotel back to normal. 
After fixing her hotel, Toadette directs Mario/Luigi and Toad to the location of where they can find the next Music Key; however, she soon becomes upset when she notices that the heroes had run-off to find the crystal while she was still speaking. Toadette makes a later cameo appearance where she can be seen waving farewell from the outskirts of her hotel to Mario/Luigi and Toad as they prepare to leave World 2 after retrieving the Music Key.

Mario Superstar Baseball is Toadette's first sports appearance as an unlockable playable character (aside from Mario Kart). Toadette is a speed character who starts on Peach's team in Challenge Mode. Toadette ties with Yoshi as the fastest character in the game, but has poor fielding, fairly weak pitching, and is the worst batter in the game along with Baby Luigi and Dixie Kong. She is also the only sub-character with two special abilities: "Sliding Catch" and "Wall Jump". Toadette must be unlocked by completing Challenge Mode as Peach's team. She has good chemistry with Peach, the Toads, and Toadsworth. Toadette has six Star Missions that must be completed in order for her to be a star character, two of them involve winning games. Her unique Star Mission is "Hit a Note Block with a ball!", where Toadette must hit a fly ball and hit a Note Block in Peach Garden while playing in Challenge Mode on Hard difficulty.

Toadette makes another playable appearance in Mario Super Sluggers, where she is available from the start. In Challenge Mode, she is part of Peach's team, the Peach Monarchs. Like in the first game, she is a speed character. She has Enlarge for an ability, which she grows and hits third or home base player if she succeeds in a close-play. Her running is no longer the best in the game, though still the fastest among Toads. Her pitching has increased along with a small batting increase, though still weak, but her fielding is unchanged, and her stamina is also average. She has good chemistry with Peach, the Toads, Toadsworth, the Nokis, and Birdo. She has bad chemistry with Paragoomba, Goomba and Bowser.
In Challenge Mode, the player can recruit her by visiting the Peach Ice Garden. The only requirement of recruiting her into the team is to fix the pattern of the hedge, which is the shape of a Mushroom. After players have flipped, rotated, and switched the pattern blocks, the hedge gets completed and a three-way path shows up, which enables players to advance. Toadette then insists to join the team, saying, "You need me! I won't take no for an answer!", also implying her insistent and stubborn personality. Toadette also shows concern about Peach's flowers since something is blocking them from growing.
Toadette and Baby Mario share the same stats, the same ability (Enlarge), and even the same glove and bat. However, they have a different tackle.

Toadette appeared as a default opponent in the Japan-exclusive game, Yakuman DS. Despite her playable roles in many other multiplayer games she appears in, she appears only as an opponent. She is a normal/hard opponent; she is speedy and can win the hand faster.

In Super Mario Galaxy, both Toadette and Toad cameo in the opening storybook montage, on the second page. On the second-last page, there are two Toadettes, despite Toadette being an individual character rather than a species.

Toadette appears as a Mystery Mushroom costume in Super Mario Maker, which can be unlocked by clearing the "Toadette: Treasure Tracker" Event Course. Her appearance in this game is based on Captain Toad: Treasure Tracker. Her transformation sound is the same as in Super Mario 3D World, but with a voice clip of Toadette over it. Pressing  causes her to hold up a Power Star while facing the screen. Losing a life plays the equivalent theme from Captain Toad: Treasure Tracker, while clearing a course plays the theme when collecting the final Power Star after defeating Wingo for the last time.

Toadette makes an appearance in Super Mario Run. Here, she serves as the referee in Toad Rally, holding flags matching the colors of the players' Miis to start the game, she also decides the winner at the end of the game. She is also an unlockable playable character, where players can unlock her house for Kingdom Builder when 200 of each Toad color (Red, Blue, Yellow, Green, and Purple) are recruited, the highest original recruit number for any playable character. Once the house is built for 1,000 coins, she is unlocked. Her abilities are almost the same as Mario's, but unlike him, she starts off in Super form (after the 3.0.4 version of the game). She can also convert some Toads by infatuation to the player's or the opponent's side before the final tally in Toad Rally. Toad takes Toadette's place as the referee in Toad Rally when playing as her.

Toadette appears in Super Mario Odyssey under the name Archivist Toadette, retaining her design from Captain Toad: Treasure Tracker. She appears to be a member of the Toad Brigade. She is found inside of Peach's Castle in the Mushroom Kingdom, where she gives Mario Power Moons for speaking to her after having completed certain achievements. A total of 61 Power Moons can be obtained from her. Because of the many Power Moons the player can obtain from her, the Mushroom Kingdom has the most unique obtainable Power Moons of all kingdoms in the game, at 104. In the Power Moon list, Power Moons obtained from Toadette are marked with Toadette's emblem, and hovering over them shows the requirement that must be met to obtain it and (if applicable) the player's progress towards this.

Toadette appears in New Super Mario Bros. U Deluxe as a playable character, labeled as "Easier" ("Easy" in the British English version). She can transform into Peachette by collecting the new Super Crown power-up, which is exclusively usable by her (other characters cannot collect it). In this form, she can float and double jump, and is boosted back up whenever she falls into a pit. Toadette, regardless of her form, also controls underwater in the same fashion as the Penguin form. In addition, for Toadette, all Blocks that would otherwise contain 1-Up Mushrooms contain 3-Up Moons, she is resistant to slipping on ice, and levels start with an additional 100 seconds on the timer when compared to playing as Mario, Luigi, or Toad (no bigger time bonus is given when both Toadette and Nabbit are being played though).

Toadette appears in Super Mario Maker 2 as a playable character. Unlike in New Super Mario Bros. U Deluxe, she plays identically to the other characters in the game. In addition, she has a role in the game's Story Mode, where she is referred to as Chief and wears a pink hardhat on her head and a belt around her waist. Before the story mode's finale, the Chief goes missing and Mario has to rescue her. Unlike in Captain Toad: Treasure Tracker, in the Super Mario 3D World style, her Small form has unchanged coloration, rather than having a light pink cap with magenta spots. Similarly to many other characters, Toadette receives new sprites for the Super Mario Bros., Super Mario Bros. 3, and Super Mario World styles, as well as being the only character receiving a new 3D model for the Super Mario 3D World style, and is seen in her Big, Superball, SMB2, Raccoon, Frog, Cape, Power Balloon, Cat, Builder, and Boomerang forms for the first time. Toadette's Checkpoint Flags and Goal Poles in the Super Mario 3D World style show the colors of her hat and spots are swapped.
Toadette also appears in two of the stamps that players can post in the course world: one of them depicts her high-fiving Toad and another depicts the two holding hands together.
Toadette's Cat form is the only one not present in Mario Kart Tour.

Toadette appears in Super Mario 3D World + Bowser's Fury in the Bowser's Fury mode. She appears near Fur Step Island after the player completes the main story and requests Mario and Bowser Jr. to search for Captain Toad, Hint Toad, Banktoad, and Yellow Toad around Lake Lapcat. After Mario finds every Toad, Toadette and the rest of the Toad Brigade celebrate at the campsite.

Toadette appears as one of the playable characters in Super Mario Bros. Wonder. In this game, Toadette plays identically as the other characters besides the Yoshis and Nabbit. At the start of the game, Toadette, alongside others, is invited to the Flower Kingdom. Daisy prevents her from falling over after Bowser uses a Wonder Flower to become Castle Bowser. Toadette later celebrates with the others when Castle Bowser is defeated and the kingdom is saved.

Toadette makes a cameo appearance in Super Smash Bros. Brawl, appearing as a trophy and two stickers. Her stickers show her artworks from Mario Party 7: the first one shows her with Toad, and is available to Mario, Luigi, Peach, Yoshi, and Bowser. Her second sticker shows her singular artwork, which is only usable by the two princesses.

Toadette reappears as a trophy in Super Smash Bros. for Wii U. Her pose is nearly identical to her trophy pose in Super Smash Bros. Brawl, albeit flipped.

In Super Smash Bros. Ultimate, Toadette appears in her Captain Toad: Treasure Tracker appearance as a master spirit, encountered in World of Light. In her spirit battle, the player has to defeat a female Villager and a Mii Brawler in a Toad hat and vest on the Battlefield form of The Great Cave Offensive. Once the battle is won, Toadette will host the Ruins, one of the locations in the Explore activity, where spirits can embark on a two-hour expedition searching for treasure. After each expedition, the player is often rewarded with Spirit Points.

Toadette appears in volume 40 of Super Mario-kun. She briefly appears in the fight against Kingfin, after Kingfin is surprised to see the Toads intact after he ate them.

Toadette makes her Mario Golf series debut in Mario Golf: World Tour as a downloadable playable character. She is a part of the Mushroom Pack and the Season Pass that were released on the same date as the game's launch. Her regular driving distance is 198 yards and she has a straight trajectory. She has one of the best Sweet Spot and Control stats, and she also hits relatively low, making her the weakest character in terms of driving distance. Her star driving distance is 230 yards.

Toadette makes her second Mario Golf series appearance in Mario Golf: Super Rush, where she appears as a non-playable character in Golf Adventure. She is part of the new group of rookies composed of Boo, Chargin' Chuck, and the Mii player coming to Bonny Greens to improve their golfing skills. She participates in the final tournament in this area and is not seen for the rest of the adventure after that.
She became a playable character as part of the 2.0.0 update on August 5, 2021. Unlike Toad, she does not don a new outfit aside from her golfing glove. She has a Stamina of 9/15 and a Speed of 9/10. Her Special Shot is Super Pickaxe Stinger and her Special Dash is Turnip-Toss Dash.

Toadette appears in Captain Toad: Treasure Tracker as a playable character alongside Captain Toad, although she is only playable in certain episodes after beating Wingo in Episode 1. Her appearance is made to resemble Captain Toad, as she wears a similar explorer's outfit. While treasure hunting with Captain Toad, Wingo appears and grabs the Power Star the Toads just retrieved. While the Captain gets knocked over, she tries to grab back the Power Star, but fails; instead, Wingo flies away with both the Star and Toadette. After a long journey, Captain Toad arrives to Wingo's Watchtower, defeats Wingo and saves Toadette, retrieving another Power Star in the process. The two jump in a minecart as the first credits roll.
In the second episode, the two Toads go treasure hunting again, but after retrieving a Power Star, Wingo appears once more. This time, the Toads play opposite roles in the adventures of Episode 1. Toadette gets knocked over, while the Captain tries to grab the Star back, but instead gets carried away by Wingo with the Star in hand. Toadette goes off to save the Captain and is played in all levels of the chapter. She heads first to Pyropuff Peak and then to Battle Tower. After the Captain is saved, Wingo appears and takes both the Power Star and Toadette again.
In the third episode, Wingo taunts the Captain, showing him Toadette and taking the Power Star, then flies away. While flying, he loses Toadette and she sets off to find the Captain. About half of the episode's levels are, in fact, played by Toadette. In the second-to-last level, Scalding Scaffold Sinkhole, Toadette retrieves yet another Power Star, but upon doing so, Wingo steals both the Star and Toadette. Captain Toad then fights and defeats Wingo for the second and last time to save Toadette. The two ride a minecart as the credits roll. At the end of the credits, Captain Toad sees a Green Star falling through the sky and sets off to take it. Toadette remains in the minecart instead and looks to the player, confused. Her whereabouts in Super Mario 3D World are unknown.
In the Bonus Episode, Toadette is played as during the three Mummy-Me chase levels. She also appears to congratulate Captain Toad at the end of Mummy-Me Maze Forever.
In the Nintendo Switch exclusive DLC Special Episode, Toadette hunts for the Shiny Crowns and Super Crown alongside Captain Toad. Unlike other chapters, Toadette can only be played as in multiplayer. As the chapter progresses, Toadette shows less interest in the common Shiny Crowns than Captain Toad, as she is really looking for the Super Crown, which is located on the 30th floor of the Grand Labyrinth. Once the last stage is completed, Chapter 1's ending sequence then plays, but the Super Crown hangs on a corner of the mine cart.

 

Toadette makes an appearance in Mario & Luigi: Paper Jam, which is her debut in the Mario & Luigi series. With the help of the Paper Toads that Mario, Luigi, and Paper Mario collect on their quest, she crafts a variety of things that the trio can use to advance in their quest, including a trampoline and the Papercrafts. She explicitly states that she is the brains of the operation, while the Paper Toads are simply manual labor. Toadette is also responsible for creating the Trio Attacks, which she gives to Paper Mario once he has collected enough Paper Toads. She has an unexplained ability to enter both Bowser's Castle and Neo Bowser Castle without detection, as well as building both Papercraft Yoshi and Papercraft Fire Mario within them.
After the Papercraft King Boo fight, the Kameks kidnap her to prevent her from producing any more Papercrafts. The trio must catch and defeat a Fly Guy that is holding her before it escapes in order to proceed through the rest of the area.

Toadette appears in Mario + Rabbids Kingdom Battle as a supporting character. She first appears briefly amongst a crowd of Toads in the intro. She then appears at the end of the Flower 'Bud' level, where, after Mario and others reunite her with Toad, expresses her concern about Peach, prompting the heroes to enter the nearby pipe to return to Peach's Castle. She later makes minor reappearances at the beginning of Guardians of the Oasis and the beginning of The Gatecrashers, where she places a frozen Rabbid Mario into the doorway to open it. She appears again, carrying a treasure chest, in Benefits of Getting Lost. She promises to give the chest after Mario and co. escort her back to Toad; when they do, she offers the chest and runs off with Toad to continue playing hide-and-seek, much to Beep-0's annoyance. The chest she was carrying during the mission contains a Spooky Peek-a-Boo model.
Neither she nor Toad are seen again until the player finishes the entire game, where they both appear in front of Peach's Castle to congratulate the heroes. Aside from appearing in the story mode, Toadette is present as a secondary hero in several solo and co-op challenges, namely the Escort Toadette and Escort Toad and Toadette objectives.

Toadette makes a very minor appearance in Mario + Rabbids Sparks of Hope. She is trapped in a Darkmess Puddle in Barrendale Mesa, which leads to the battle Toadette Trouble in which the heroes must reach Toadette's location. After being rescued, Toadette stands atop a nearby cliff and admires the view of Barrendale Mesa.

Dr. Toadette is one of the randomly unlockable doctors available in Dr. Mario World, but as of the 1.2.0 update, Dr. Toadette can be alternatively unlocked if players collect all of the clear stars from World 5 and complete its Special Stage (beating the stage prior to the update will allow her to be obtainable through the doc box). In stage mode, Dr. Toadette's skill enables her to change two objects (mainly viruses) into handy boxes that when eliminated, will give out either a shell, an exploder, a pop cannon, an electric exploder or a rotating cannon (Skill chargers cannot be found in handy boxes generated this way), with the latter three only being possible when they are first introduced. This skill is represented by Toadette spinning while the top of the screen contain question marks and a line with question marks cuts across behind her emblem in the middle, after which the object(s) are transformed. If there are no more viruses in the stage, other objects that can be eliminated such as crates will be changed, except for coins, capsules or objects that can eliminate such as exploders. Even if there is one virus and another eligible transforming object in the stage, it will only change the single virus while any eligible objects aren't changed when this skill is used. In versus mode, her skill hides viruses on the opponent's stage in clouds, hiding up to 4, 8, 12, 16 and 20 viruses based on the level (2, 4, 6, 8, 10 respectively prior to season 7 in versus).

Toadette makes her Mario & Sonic series debut as a playable character in Mario & Sonic at the Olympic Games Tokyo 2020. Toadette appears as a Speed-type guest character in said game, being exclusive to the 110m Hurdles event. Toadette's outfit for 110m Hurdles is comparable to her alternate costume from Mario Tennis Aces.

Toadette briefly appears in the Super Nintendo World theme park area's trailer, standing on Peach's Castle's balcony with Peach. In the theme park itself, Toadette greets tourists in the Yoshi's Adventure attraction.

Toadette makes a cameo in WarioWare: Get It Together!, appearing in the Captain Toad: Treasure Tracker microgame when it is played in 2-player co-op mode.

In The Super Mario Bros. Movie, Toadette makes a cameo on a banner that can be seen when Mario and Toad are walking through the Mushroom Kingdom town. On the banner, she is seen playing in a band with Toad and a blue Toad. A single pink Toad House with white spots resembling her house from Super Mario Run also appears in the background of the movie and final posterMedia:Full Mario Movie Poster.jpg.
Toadette was planned to make a physical appearance in the film, as she can be seen in early concept art.

Toadette is portrayed wearing a sleeveless pink dress with a thin white line near the bottom (except in Paper Mario: The Thousand-Year Door and the artwork for Mario Kart: Double Dash!!, where her dress is colored scarlet red with a thin yellow line). Layered on top of the dress is a bright red vest (colored pink or brown with the scarlet dress) with light gold trim linings by the edges. Underneath this, she wears white pants and brown, padded shoes.
Toadette has the same body and facial structure as other Toads; she has the same round head and skin tone most other members of her species share. Her eyes are small, dark, and oval-shaped (with Super Mario-Kun being an exception, where Toadette is depicted with large, round eyes). Like most Toads, she has the appearance of a child, even in terms of her voice, making her sound like a little girl.

Toadette has a pink cap with white spots, which is close to a simple color swap of a male Toad's cap colors. She has a unique set of braid-like plaits, each with two pink plaits and a third plait pink with white spots, that match the design of her Toad cap; they flow freely and tend to bounce around when she is in the middle of any activities.
In Captain Toad: Treasure Tracker, Toadette dons an exploration outfit consisting of light pink pants and a light pink exploration dress shirt, a red handkerchief, red shoes, a brown belt with a rectangular gold buckle, a headlamp, and a large backpack; the outfit is heavily reminiscent of Captain Toad's, with the lone difference being in the color of her pants and shirt.
In New Super Mario Bros. U Deluxe, Toadette gains alternate outfits for power-ups that she collects. In her fire form, she gains a scarlet red mushroom cap with pink spots, while her pants and vest turn scarlet red as well; her dress remains unchanged. For her ice form, Toadette's outfit is identical, though with a cyan mushroom cap and vest instead. As her penguin form, she wears an onyx black suit with magenta spots. In her flying squirrel form, Toadette has a pink cap with two bright stripes and squirrel ears, but she retains her pigtails. Toadette also receives a red handkerchief around her neck, as well as gloves, squirrel-like fur, puffy pink pants, grayish shoes, flying membranes, and a tail. In her P flying squirrel form, Toadette retains her red handkerchief and pink pants, but her shoes turn purplish in color, while her pigtails and the rest of her outfit turn white; additionally, a big red "P" is present on Toadette's cap. In her propeller form, Toadette's shoes turn pink, and she wears a pink flight suit and helmet; the former has Toadette's dress change in the process, while the latter features a propeller at the top. In Super Mario Maker 2, Toadette gains more alternate outfits. In her superball form, Toadette turns black-and-white, paying homage to Super Mario Land. In her SMB2 form, Toadette's sprite is tinged in pink while her mouth is open, paying homage to Super Mario Bros. 2. In her raccoon form, Toadette gains a pink-and-white striped tail, as well as pink-and-white striped raccoon ears on her mushroom cap. In her frog and cat forms, Toadette wears full-body suits resembling those animals, albeit with her pigtails sticking out.
Even without power-ups, Toadette's appearance still changes in Super Mario Maker 2. In the Super Mario Bros. style, Toadette's shoes, vest, and eyes turn pink, matching the color of her dress, referencing the NES' technical limitations; however, her vest's gold lining is now colored white to differentiate it from her dress. In the Super Mario Bros. 3 style, Toadette's vest turns black, its gold lining is missing, and her pants gain a pinkish tint; when standing, she keeps her hands clutched to her vest, emulating the Mario Bros.' standing sprites. Toadette's Super Mario World sprite bears a much closer resemblance to her current design, albeit with a blank "o"-shaped expression reminiscent of Kirby, and still clutches onto her vest. In all three styles, Toadette has short legs that are visible when moving or jumping.
In Mario Tennis Aces' May Online Tournament, Toadette's new tennis attire is introduced. Toadette wears a pink visor cap with its rim surrounding her mushroom cap, while wearing her usual dress shirt and white pants, but with the Nintendo logo on the former; she also does not wear her usual vest. Toadette also wears lavender sneakers with her insignia on them, which also appears on her cap.
In Dr. Mario World, Toadette wears a head mirror, as well as a white lab coat over her dress. In addition, she also wears a red bowtie and carries a satchel.
In Mario Kart Tour, Toadette has two alternate forms: Sailor and Astronaut. In her Sailor form, Toadette wears a white sailor hat on her mushroom cap. Her dress is white with a pink handkerchief surrounding her neck. Her pants are pink, while the shoes are red. In her Astronaut form, Toadette wears a white spacesuit and a clear helmet.
In Mario & Sonic at the Olympic Games Tokyo 2020, Toadette wears a sleeveless pink shirt with white stripes on it, as well as pink sneakers with yellow laces, white stripes, and her emblem on them.
Toadette coincidentally shares her appearance with the Trading Event Toad that gives out gifts in Paper Mario, also having a pink mushroom cap and red vest.
Using certain power-ups, the design of Toadette in that form makes her cap resemble a Poison Mushroom on two occasions: In New Super Mario Bros. U Deluxe and Mario Kart Tour, the design of her Penguin form makes her cap resemble a Poison Mushroom in the Luigi's Mansion series (black cap with pink spots), and in Super Mario Bros. Wonder, the design of her Bubble form makes her cap resemble the Poison Mushroom's modern design (violet cap with pink spots).

Toadette is generally a happy and upbeat girl. She is portrayed as being a nice, sensitive person, and she enjoys being with others; she has similar personality traits to Toad. However, it is shown she can get childish and stubborn very easily, especially if being upset or when reality starts to kick in.
In Paper Mario: The Thousand-Year Door, Toadette states that she likes animals and that she is saddened when Punio stops visiting the sewers. Also, if players change the time on their GameCube's clock, Lucky, who runs the Rogueport lottery, mentions that the lottery numbers are messed up because someone has changed the clock, and when he tells this to Toadette, she "cried her little eyes out", showing that at times she can be very emotional. This is also supported when, at the conclusion of the last tutorial session with Mario, Toadette runs off in tears, knowing that she will not see him for the rest of his adventure. In Dance Dance Revolution: Mario Mix, she was portrayed as quite pushy, forcing Mario and Toad to fix her hotel even though they are in a hurry to find the Music Keys. Mario Super Sluggers also has shown that Toadette is determined and stubborn, as she claims that fellow teammates need her and that she does not take no for an answer.
Mario Party DS indicates that she is interested in music and musical instruments, even to the point of going to play in a recital. Toadette stays up late practicing a wide array of instruments ranging from trumpets, to violins, to even a small silver hand bell. Her trophy bio for Super Smash Bros. for Wii U has also stated that she likes animals and musical interests, enforcing her preferences shown in Paper Mario: The Thousand-Year Door and Mario Party DS. Toadette also conducts the marching band in the Baton and On minigame in Super Mario Party and gives advice about the Sound Stage mode, further enforcing her interest in music.

In Mario & Luigi: Paper Jam, Toadette proclaims herself to be a genius and is the one who designs the papercraft machines for Mario and Luigi. She is the one who researches the area in Mount Brrr and comes up with ideas for papercraft to battle Bowser. In Super Mario Maker 2, Toadette is shown to be very prideful of her work, using adjectives such as "spectacular" and "amazing" - and architectural rambling - to describe Peach's new castle. She is also shown to think somewhat highly of herself: in one of her dialogues to Mario, she says, "It would take twice as long for any normal person to get this done."
Toadette is shown to be clumsy and forgetful, as evidenced by Mario + Rabbids Kingdom Battle, since she cannot remember where to find Toad while they were playing hide-and-seek during the events of Guardians of the Oasis and The Gatecrashers. Super Mario Maker 2's story mode also shows Toadette to be oblivious at times, such as in the instances in which her Toad coworkers are kidnapped; she only becomes aware of what had been happening later on, when she herself is kidnapped.

Toadette can manipulate her size and emulate the effects of the Super Mushroom with her Enlarge ability in Mario Super Sluggers. Additionally, she can utilize Power-ups such as the Invincibility Mushroom, Super Pickax, and Double Cherry in Captain Toad: Treasure Tracker. Due to her appearance in New Super Mario Bros. U Deluxe, Toadette can utilize many other power-ups, which include: the Super Mushroom, Fire Flower, Ice Flower, Super Acorn, Propeller Mushroom, Penguin Suit, Mini Mushroom, and P-Acorn; she also has exclusive access to the Super Crown, introduced in New Super Mario Bros. U Deluxe, which transforms her into a Peach clone called Peachette, who can double jump and float in addition to always being boosted out of pits. In Super Mario Maker 2's artwork, Toadette is shown in cat form, showing access to the Super Bell; due to being a playable character, Toadette can also use the Superball Flower, Big Mushroom, SMB2 Mushroom, Super Leaf, Frog Suit, Cape Feather, Power Balloon, and Super Hammer in their respective game styles. In Super Mario Run, Toadette's special ability is to convert Toads to her side by infatuation in the game mode Toad Rally.
Toadette herself tends to vary in playstyle, as the Mario Baseball games and Mario & Sonic at the Olympic Games Tokyo 2020 depict her as a speed character and Mario Tennis: Ultra Smash gives Toadette the Tricky archetype. Toadette is considered a Technical character in Mario Tennis Aces, while Super Mario Run makes Toadette a balanced character, since her running speed, traction, and jumping height are average. The main levels in New Super Mario Bros. U Deluxe retain Toadette's balanced stats, though the New Super Luigi U levels give her Luigi's physics, such as low traction and high jumps. In most game installments, she consistently trades raw power for a different stat. New Super Mario Bros. U Deluxe  contradicts this, however, as Toadette is shown to be able to lift barrels and carry her own teammates with ease, and then throw them with little to no effort. Additionally, Toadette can perform a synchronized Ground Pound with her teammates, which instantly defeats all on-screen enemies. She uses many basic moves like the Ground Pound, jump, Double Jump, Triple Jump, Wall Jump, Spin Jump, and crouch in New Super Mario Bros. U Deluxe. In Super Mario Maker 2's Super Mario 3D World, Toadette can also Long Jump, walk while crouching, jump after ground pounding, and drastically accelerate her running speed.

In Mario Kart: Double Dash!!, Toadette is introduced as Toad's partner, which has been continued throughout the spin-off games. According to the official guides from Prima for Mario Kart: Double Dash!!, Mario Kart Wii, and Mario Kart 8, Toad and Toadette are siblings. In Mario Kart Arcade GP 2, Toadette cameos in Yoshi Park 2 in which pictures of Toad and Toadette appear to be holding flowers for each other (as pictured on the left). Additionally, in the ending screen of Mario Kart Wii, the two Toads can be seen holding hands. In the introduction of Super Mario Galaxy, both Toads can be seen sitting beside each other in a grassy plain while watching the shooting stars. Their team name in Mario Party 6 indicates that, being the only two playable Toads, they are good friends. Regardless, the two are on good terms, including sharing good chemistry in the baseball games. It is revealed in Mario Party DS that Toad built her a special table by himself (for her music recital), which was later given to her by Peach. However, they are not romantically involved, according to an interview with Koichi Hayashida. The Mario Baseball series shows Toadette having good chemistry with Toadsworth, though their exact relationship remains unexplored. 
Toadette adventures alongside Captain Toad in Captain Toad: Treasure Tracker. Whenever Toadette gets kidnapped by Wingo, in Episodes 1 and 3, where she holds onto a Power Star, Captain Toad rescues both her and the Power Star. A role reversal also occurs: Toadette rescues a captured Captain Toad in Episode 2.
It is revealed in Super Mario Maker 2 that the Taskmaster Toad and his crew admire Toadette and call her "fabulous", but admit that she can be picky or pushy when it comes to selecting materials to build with (e.g., stones), and often complain (albeit in secret) about her behavior.
Toadette and Mario are good friends. Toadette often helps, assists, or provides activities to him (such as the Duel Challenge in Mario Party Advance). It is hinted in Paper Mario: The Thousand-Year Door that she may have a crush on him, as she blushes every time she compliments him and cries when leaving after showing him the last weapon, the Ultra Hammer. Also, she speaks to him with hearts in many of the speech bubbles. When leaving, she indicates a concern for his safety. She also tells him to rescue Princess Peach, which may mean that she has realized that she and Mario could never be because he belongs with Peach. 
Toadette and Princess Peach get along very well, since they both have good chemistry in Mario Superstar Baseball and Mario Super Sluggers, and because Toadette is assigned to Peach's team in both games. Toadette always wants to help Peach and Mario in any way she can, even though she has been somewhat pushy about it; this is notable in Mario Super Sluggers, since she insists on joining the heroes in saving their ballpark. Toadette also expresses concern for Peach's welfare and safety in Mario + Rabbids Kingdom Battle when the Rabbids begin "renovating" the Mushroom Kingdom.
Toadette and Luigi rarely interact, but Mario & Luigi: Paper Jam sees the two characters properly interact. Toadette builds Papercraft machines that can be used in battle (including a Luigi Papercraft, which has high HP), and in return, Luigi and the two Marios find Paper Toads scattered throughout the Mushroom Kingdom to give to Toadette, so she can build stronger, more resilient papercraft. When Toadette's Papercrafts are destroyed by Bowser, Luigi tries to comfort her, though Toadette reveals that she already had an idea for how the trio could defeat Bowser.
Toadette is shown to have positive chemistry with Birdo and Noki in Mario Super Sluggers but her connections with both characters remain unexplored.

Toadette has a negative relationship with Bowser, as shown in the Mario Party and Mario Baseball series, where Toadette helps stop Bowser alongside Mario and his friends. In the Mario Party titles, Toadette can fight Bowser and his allies on various boards, and in Super Mario Run and New Super Mario Bros. U Deluxe, she can be used to defeat Bowser in castles. In Mario & Luigi: Paper Jam, Toadette constructs Papercrafts to help the Mario Trio defeat Bowser's minions, and also infiltrates Bowser's Castle and Neo Bowser Castle. Bowser sends Kamek and Fly Guy to capture Toadette, along with brutally destroying the Papercrafts to prevent her from creating more Papercrafts for the Mario Trio to use. In spite of being enemies, Toadette is shown to get along with Bowser in Super Mario Party, showing a friendly and polite attitude towards him.
To certain extents, Toadette and Kamek are enemies, due to the latter kidnapping the former in Mario & Luigi: Paper Jam. During the events of Super Mario Party, Toadette is initially surprised to see him as the third host, but she later gets along with him, as evidenced by one of her conversations with the player. 
Toadette is shown to have poor chemistry with Wario and Waluigi in Mario Superstar Baseball, though her exact relationships with them are rarely touched upon; the only exception (albeit in an inverse situation) is Super Mario Party, which shows Toadette being friendly and polite towards Wario and Waluigi.
In Captain Toad: Treasure Tracker, Toadette gains her own enemy, Wingo. He kidnaps Toadette twice during the events of Captain Toad: Treasure Tracker, as well as kidnapping Captain Toad in Episode 2.

Bios of Toadette often describe her as "cute" and "spunky", and often point to her origin as a playable character in Mario Kart: Double Dash!!. Bios often highlight what she and Toad have in common with each other, including their similar appearances. Toadette is portrayed as a lightweight and speedy character, namely in the Mario Baseball series and the Mario Kart series, and bios outside of those game series cite the games for those stats.