The "25m Theme", also known as "25m BGM", is a simple, five-note musical theme composed by Yukio Kaneoka for the arcade version of Donkey Kong. The theme is derived from the bassline to "The Ballad of John and Yoko", a 1969 song by English rock band the Beatles. It can only be heard in the 25m level in the original arcade version, but it is sometimes used in other levels in later ports of Donkey Kong.

The following list does not include ports or remakes of Donkey Kong.

The ColecoVision version of Donkey Kong features an arrangement of the "25m Theme" that uses more elongated individual notes than the original and slightly different chiptune instrumentation. It can be heard on 25m, 75m, and 100m.

The Atari 8-bit family version of Donkey Kong features an arrangement of the "25m Theme" very similar to the original that uses slightly different chiptune instrumentation. It can be heard on 25m.

The Nintendo Entertainment System version of Donkey Kong features an arrangement of the "25m Theme" that is transposed to a higher key. It can be heard on 25m. This version has gone on to be reused in several later games, often interchangeably with the original arcade version. 
This arrangement is reused in the Family Computer Disk System version of Donkey Kong, as well as Donkey Kong-e, the e-Reader port of the game, and Classic NES Series: Donkey Kong, the Game Boy Advance port of the game.

The VIC-20 version of Donkey Kong features an arrangement of the "25m Theme" that plays in a much more uneven rhythm than the original and uses different chiptune instrumentation. It can be heard on 25m, 50m, 75m, and 100m.

The Atarisoft-developed version of Donkey Kong for the Commodore 64 features an arrangement of the "25m Theme" very similar to the original, but it is slightly slower and the rhythm of the notes is slightly more uneven. It can be heard on 25m.

The Coleco Adam version of Donkey Kong features an arrangement of the "25m Theme" very similar to the ColecoVision arrangement, as it uses the same chiptune instrumentation but without the elongated notes. It can be heard on 25m.

The Ocean Software-developed version of Donkey Kong for the Commodore 64 features an arrangement of the "25m Theme" the uses much different chiptune instrumentation and is slightly faster than the original. It can be heard on 25m.

The MSX version of Donkey Kong features an arrangement of the "25m Theme" very similar to the original that uses different chiptune instrumentation. It can be heard on 25m.

The Amstrad CPC version of Donkey Kong features an arrangement of the "25m Theme" that uses much harsher chiptune instrumentation than the original. It can be heard on 25m.

The Atari 7800 version of Donkey Kong features an arrangement of the "25m Theme" that uses slightly different chiptune instrumentation and is transposed to a higher key. It can be heard on 25m.

In the Game Boy title Donkey Kong, a slightly different chiptune arrangement of the "25m Theme" plays in 25m and 75m in the Construction Site.

In WarioWare, Inc.: Mega Microgame$!, an arrangement of the "25m Theme" can be heard during the Donkey Kong microgame. It uses chiptune instrumentation very similar to the Nintendo Entertainment System version of Donkey Kong and is slowed down to the tempo of the bomb, though its final note right before the microgame ends is higher than the previous note rather than lower.

WarioWare: D.I.Y. features a medley arrangement of several themes from the Donkey Kong series as one of 9-Volt's Records simply titled "Donkey Kong". The medley includes the "25m Theme" and "Opening" from Donkey Kong and the title theme from Donkey Kong Jr.

In WarioWare: D.I.Y. Showcase, the Donkey Kong microgame features the arrangement of the "25m Theme" heard in the Nintendo Entertainment System version of Donkey Kong, but its tempo has been altered to correspond with the ticking of the bomb.

Dance Dance Revolution: Mario Mix features a medley arrangement that includes the "25m Theme" along with "Opening", "Hammer" and several other themes and sound effects from Donkey Kong titled "Moustache, Barrel, and Gorilla".

Tetris DS features multiple arrangements of the "25m Theme". A full arrangement of the "25m Theme" titled "Tetris DK" plays in Standard Lv. 13, the game's Donkey Kong-themed Standard Level.
A medley of "Level Start" and the "25m Theme" very similar to the arrangements heard in the NES version of Donkey Kong titled "DK Push" plays during the Push mode, which is based around elements from Donkey Kong.
An arrangement of the "25m Theme" plays at the end of the game's credits theme, "CongraTetris", along with arrangements of the "Ground Theme" and "Super Star" from Super Mario Bros.

In Tetris 99, a medley arrangement of "Level Start" and the "25m Theme" plays on Theme 11 "Donkey Kong" until 10 players remain. A sped-up version of the arrangement plays when 50 players are remaining.

In Mario vs. Donkey Kong 2: March of the Minis, an arrangement of the "25m Theme" plays on the results screen after the player completes a level. Another arrangement plays in the roof and DK's Hideout's levels, which also incorporates "DK Island Swing".

Super Smash Bros. Brawl features two arrangements of the "25m Theme". The first arrangement is simply titled "Donkey Kong" and also features a brief arrangement of the "Level Start" theme and various sound effects from the arcade version of Donkey Kong. It was arranged by Hirokazu Tanaka.
The second is included in the arrangement of "Opening" titled "Opening (Donkey Kong)". The track also includes the "Level Start" jingle and the music that plays when Mario uses a Hammer. It is primarily based on the NES version of Donkey Kong. It was arranged by Shota Kageyama, who would later go on to compose for games in the Pokémon series. Both arrangements can be played on the 75 m stage.
Both arrangements return in Super Smash Bros. for Wii U, where they can also be played on 75m, and Super Smash Bros. Ultimate, the latter now formatted as "Opening - Donkey Kong", where they can be played on any Super Smash Bros.- and Donkey Kong-series stage.

Super Smash Bros. Ultimate features a medley arrangement titled "Donkey Kong / Donkey Kong Jr. Medley" arranged by Yusuke Takahama. It features arrangements of the "25m Theme" and several themes from the original Donkey Kong and its sequel Donkey Kong Jr. It uses the "Game Start", Hammer, "Bonus Running Out", "Stage Clear", 100m, and "All Clear" themes from Donkey Kong and the "Game Start", "Stage 1", "Stage 4", "Ending", and "Stage Clear" themes from Donkey Kong Jr. The overall track has a fast-paced, orchestral/electronic hybrid style and extrapolates heavily on the original melodies, with the "25m Theme" serving as the basis. The track can be played on any Super Smash Bros.- and Donkey Kong-series stage.

In Nintendo Land, a brief arrangement of the "25m Theme" plays when the player approaches the gate for Donkey Kong's Crash Course and when selecting the attraction on the main menu.
A much longer mashup arrangement of the "25m Theme" and "Opening" (specifically the "Cranky's Theme" version from Donkey Kong Country) plays in Course 1 and Course 3 of the attraction. The Course 1 version features the "25m Theme" played with chiptune and bongos with "Opening" played on the marimba. The Course 3 version adds string and woodwind instrumentation.

Super Mario Odyssey features several arrangements of the "25m Theme". In "Jump Up, Super Star!", the "Odyssey, ya see" bridge section uses an arrangement of the "25m Theme" played on the bass and brass instruments as a backing bassline. This full version is titled "NDC Festival" in-game. There is also a version with Japanese lyrics titled "NDC Festival (Japanese)" that can be played from a boombox in the Metro Kingdom and the Mushroom Kingdom. An 8-bit version without vocals titled "NDC Festival (8-Bit)" is unlocked in the Music List after the player fulfills all of Jammin' Toad's requests, and it can also be played if the player replays A Traditional Festival! The bassist of the band can also be heard playing the arrangement when Mario first finds him.
"Jump Up, Super Star!" plays over the "Super Mario Odyssey: Around the World" ("Super Mario Odyssey: World Trekking" in Europe and Oceania) Nintendo 3DS HOME Menu theme.
The "NDC Festival" version of the song appears in Super Smash Bros. Ultimate, and can be played on any Super Smash Bros.- and Super Mario-series stage. For the New Donk City Hall stage, two separate tracks exist in My Music: "Jump Up, Super Star!" and "Jump Up, Super Star! (Full Band Performance)." If the former is selected, only the drums are heard as only the drummer appears in the plaza, while Pauline and the rest of the band members randomly appear throughout the match. Passing by them recruits them to perform their part in the song and appear in the plaza. If the latter is selected, the song plays as is, and the performers are absent from the stage. "Jump Up, Super Star!" also plays in Mario's character trailer.
The short version of the song is also included as a playable song in the Game Music section of the Nintendo Switch installment of Bandai Namco's Taiko no Tatsujin series, Taiko no Tatsujin: Drum 'n' Fun!, as well as in the Taiko no Tatsujin arcade game. It is titled "Jump Up, Super Star! Short Version".
In the version 1.2.0 update for Ring Fit Adventure released on March 26, 2020, a new Rhythm Game mode was added, which includes original songs along with music tracks from other games, one of which is "Jump Up, Super Star!"
The version of "Break Free (Lead the Way)" heard during the ending cutscene of Super Mario Odyssey also features an arrangement of the "25m Theme". This full version is titled "Honeylune Ridge: Escape" in-game. Like "Jump Up, Super Star!", there is also a version with Japanese lyrics titled "Honeylune Ridge: Escape (Japanese)" that can be played from various boomboxes throughout the game. An 8-bit version without vocals titled "Honeylune Ridge: Escape (8-Bit)" is unlocked in the Music List after the player fulfills all of Jammin' Toad's requests.
"Break Free (Lead the Way)" is featured as a playable track in Super Smash Bros. Ultimate and can be played on any Super Smash Bros.- and Super Mario-series stage.

"Jump Up, Super Star!", including the "25m Theme" bridge section, was performed live during The Game Awards 2017 by the Game Awards Orchestra and Kate Higgins as part of a medley of music from the games nominated for Game of the Year.

1 - Added in the Donkey Kong Adventure DLC released on June 26, 2018