Rosalina's Ice World is the second race course of the Special Cup in Mario Kart 7. Located on an icy road, it is the first, and so far, the only course in the Mario Kart series to be owned by Rosalina, and as a result draws inspiration from the Super Mario Galaxy installments. The drivers can dive underwater where some penguins swim, in an area which strongly resembles the main planet of Cosmic Cove Galaxy. This is the second Special Cup course to take place in a snow/ice-themed area, the first being Vanilla Lake 2 in Super Mario Kart.
The course returns in Mario Kart Tour, debuting in the Rosalina Tour. It also returns in Mario Kart 8 Deluxe as the second course of the Spiny Cup in the Booster Course Pass.

The course starts off in a snowy area with snow covered domes and a structure resembling the Comet Observatory off to the side. The racers then take a slight turn to the right and pass through a halfpipe-like three-quarters turn with the right edge as a pit and some coins. After passing under the beginning of the turn and continuing forward, a small ramp allows racers to jump onto an icy area with penguins and a few coins, with the first lap giving them a choice of the icy path, or an underwater cavern filled with more coins. The second lap, however requires racers to go underwater unless they have a Mushroom, use the Super Mini-Turbo, or drive straight after the curve with at least eight coins and hold the Circle Pad down, as the kart goes higher when this is done. After the icy area, racers go through a cavern with icicles protruding from the ground, which can be shattered. The road then splits and gives the racer a choice of taking a narrow road with a series of Dash Panels, where a Starshroom can be seen on the right, or a wide path with no boosts. A final jump is then encountered, and finally, racers turns to the finish line. In the background of the course, the starting planet of the Gateway Galaxy can be seen in some areas. When racing online, the underwater penguins are absent.
This is the only new course in the game which does not involve gliding.

Rosalina's Ice World makes its classic course debut in Mario Kart Tour, starting with the Rosalina Tour. Rosalina's Ice World is the fourth course after DS DK Pass, DS Airship Fortress, and Wii Maple Treeway to be the signature course of two tours (the Rosalina Tour and the 2021 Space Tour). Penguins now appear on top of the ice during the first lap, and move underwater for the second lap. It retains most of its appearance from Mario Kart 7, though with a few minor differences. Most notably, the planet seen in some areas is now a 3D model that is loosely based on the starting planet from Gateway Galaxy. Trees were added to the background in spots, and the arrow signs in the first section are removed. The wall on the right-hand side of the spiral turn has been removed, likely because the game prevents players from falling here regardless.
The course also appears as Rosalina's Ice World R (reversed), Rosalina's Ice World T (with ramps), and Rosalina's Ice World R/T (reversed with ramps). The former two debuted alongside the original in the Rosalina Tour, while the latter debuted in the 2021 Space Tour. In the R and R/T variants, a glide ramp was added to the exit of the icy cavern with icicles; in the R/T variant, the ramp is only usable on lap 2. In the T variant, there are two Penguins in the icy cavern.

For this course's tour appearances, see List of 3DS Rosalina's Ice World tour appearances in Mario Kart Tour.

Select "show" to reveal the drivers, karts, and gliders for which 3DS Rosalina's Ice World and its variants are always favored or favorite courses. For instances in which additional drivers, karts, and gliders temporarily had this course and its variants as favored or favorite courses, see List of 3DS Rosalina's Ice World tour appearances in Mario Kart Tour.

Rosalina's Ice World reappears in Mario Kart 8 Deluxe as part of the sixth and final wave of the Booster Course Pass DLC. It appears as the second course of the Spiny Cup. This was the first course from Mario Kart 7 to be added in the pass since Rainbow Road three waves prior. It is based on its appearance in Mario Kart Tour, though with significant visual upgrades.
A new shortcut with a wooden ramp has been added along the final turn. The wall on the right-hand side of the spiral section has been extended, closer to how it appeared in Mario Kart 7. Two half-pipes have been added in the section leading to the icy expanse, making this the first 3DS course to feature half-pipes; one is along the right side immediately after the underpass, while the other is on the left side. Taking this second half-pipe gives racers enough of a boost to take the top ice section on every lap. The number of ice pillars has been greatly reduced. The yellow stars atop the posts after the course's starting line now illuminate brightly. Additionally, some of the stars atop poles have been recolored slightly. The ending portion of the music is arranged slightly differently, with a different chord being used.
Internally, the course is referred to as "Cnsw_67", implying it may have originally been intended to be the third course of the Spiny Cup. However, according to the list of prefixes left in the game's files in the 2.0.0 update, said slot formerly did not have a prefix, meaning Rosalina's Ice World presumably replaced a course without a prefix that was originally intended for the pass.