Daisy Hills is the second course of the Mushroom Cup in Mario Kart 7.  While the course's name alludes to Princess Daisy, it also refers to the course's numerous flowers decorating the grassy areas. The course itself is located in a village surrounded by green hills, mountains and fields with flowers, and goats appear as obstacles in some parts of the course. It strongly resembles an Austrian landscape.
Daisy Hills reappears in Mario Kart Tour starting with the New York Tour along with the rest of Mario Kart 7's Mushroom Cup. Daisy Hills is the only Daisy-themed course in the series to not appear in Mario Kart 8 Deluxe.

The race starts in the village. There are Miis cheering on the racers and some houses, then there is a turn to the left and the road leaves the village. There is a wooden bridge connected to a small island, then another bridge that rises and goes onto another island. This one has some trick ramps made of trunks, some goats and a trick ramp in the middle of the grass. Then there is another bridge and another turn, which is the tallest part of the track. Then the road continues on a bridge with two Dash Panels and a Glide Ramp. There is a lake with several hot-air balloons over it. When the player lands, there are some stairs, and then a small fountain in the middle of the plaza that the character is able to do tricks off of. Racers can also land on the rooftops to the right, with several ramps leading back to the main route, as well as Dash Panels to keep the route length more in line with the main one. Then there is a left turn, and after a few more sets of stairs (now leading down), the player passes through the finish line, starting the next lap. 

Daisy Hills makes its classic course debut in Mario Kart Tour, starting with the New York Tour. A few changes have been made to the course: the roofs of the windmills are less steep, and the flags with Daisy's emblem were redesigned. The Miis near the start were removed and the hot air balloons now have clearer patterns on them. 
The course also appears as Daisy Hills R (reversed), Daisy Hills T (with ramps), and Daisy Hills R/T (reversed with ramps). The former two debuted alongside the original in the New York Tour, while the latter debuted in the 2019 Winter Tour. In the T variant, two of the hot-air balloons are low enough that racers can bounce and trick off of them while gliding. In the R/T variant, the gliding section is removed.
Prior to the 2019 Halloween Tour, no glider had Daisy Hills R listed as a favorite course. Instead, its appearance in the New York Tour’s Baby Peach Cup relied on the spotlight bonus to raise the Peach Parasol up one level.

For this course's tour appearances, see List of 3DS Daisy Hills tour appearances in Mario Kart Tour.

Select "show" to reveal the drivers, karts, and gliders for which 3DS Daisy Hills and its variants are always favored or favorite courses. For instances in which additional drivers, karts, and gliders temporarily had this course and its variants as favored or favorite courses, see List of 3DS Daisy Hills tour appearances in Mario Kart Tour.