Amazy Dayzees are sparkling, golden, extremely rare variants of Crazee Dayzees appearing only in the Paper Mario series. In Paper Mario, they can be seen outside of battle and are fought alone only in Flower Fields. In Paper Mario: The Thousand-Year Door, however, they appear randomly with other enemies in battle.

Amazy Dayzees are first found in Paper Mario, and can be located randomly on the southeast path of Flower Fields, with a new chance to appear each time a section of Flower Fields is re-entered. They are first mentioned by Russ T., who is interested in these mysterious Dayzees. He advises Mario to try to put them to sleep if he is lucky enough to run into one, as they raise Star Points higher than any other enemy in the game. Mario can enter a battle with an Amazy Dayzee; however, it almost always runs away on its first turn.  
During the parade at the end of the game, two Amazy Dayzees make a cameo appearance, leading the "Mer-" family float; this is the only time where more than one Amazy Dayzee is on the screen at the same time in the whole game, and the first of only two in the entire Paper Mario series.
If Mario has the Dizzy Attack badge, he can spin into Amazy Dayzee on the overworld to guarantee at least two turns of damage.

In Paper Mario: The Thousand-Year Door along with its Nintendo Switch remake, Amazy Dayzees can be found in two locations: Twilight Trail and the Pit of 100 Trials, occasionally in 92-94 and 96-98 levels. Statistically, they have the highest attack power of any enemy in the entire game, dealing a massive 20 damage to both Mario and his partner, as well as putting them both to sleep. In Twilight Trail, they are always found in the presence of Crazee Dayzees or Hyper Clefts. Amazy Dayzees have a high chance of fleeing on the first turn of battle.
If Mario manages to defeat an Amazy Dayzee, he can earn up to 70 Star Points, depending on how high his level currently is. In the Pit of 100 Trials, Amazy Dayzees are commonly found in the presence of Poison Puffs, Swampires, and Bob-ulks, but are never found on their own. In Twilight Trail, only one Amazy Dayzee can be found at a time, but up to two Amazy Dayzees can be found at once in the Pit of 100 Trials. Special Moves such as Art Attack and Supernova, along with an Ultra Ranked partner and Sleepy Sheep item, can make them easier to defeat if the player is quick enough.

Amazy Dayzees appear once again in Super Paper Mario. In Chapter 8-2, Mimi asks Mario, Luigi and Princess Peach several questions on which enemies frighten them the most, and an Amazy Dayzee can be chosen as an answer. If chosen, it will later be found as one of the several traps set up by Mimi. They are very fast and can flip between dimensions at any moment they wish to. One is also found in Chapter 5-2 if Mario flips to 3-D in the area with a Yoshi statue, and can be seen inside the Flipside Pit of 100 Trials in Room 58. They also occasionally drop Golden Leaves or a Dayzee Tear. Also, if its musical note is touched, it will cost the hero 10 HP, and they will fall asleep. This is the only game where Amazy Dayzees do not have any defense. 
Amazy Dayzee Catch Cards can be bought for 500 Flipside Tokens each in Flipside Arcade, though they can also be captured in Chapter 5-2. They can be sold for 300 coins each in Catch a Dream or Fondest Hopes.