The Angry Sun, or simply Sun, is a small evil sun that first appeared in Super Mario Bros. 3. In most appearances, it looks similar to an actual sun, but it is only slightly bigger than Mario and Luigi and often has a furious-looking expression.

The Angry Sun appears in two levels of Super Mario Bros. 3. It first appears in World 2-Desert of Desert Land, and again in World 8-2 of Dark Land. To attack Mario, the Angry Sun swoops down at him in a U-shaped arch. The Angry Sun can be destroyed by a Koopa Shell, or with hammers from the Hammer Suit. In World 8-2, the Angry Sun can also be bypassed by taking either of the secret Warp Pipes near the beginning of the level.

The Angry Sun reappears as an enemy that can be placed in Super Mario Maker 2. The Angry Sun now flies on a longer path than usual due to it now being on a 16:9 screen as opposed to 4:3. At night, it is replaced by a Moon that flies in the same path, but defeats all enemies on screen when touched. In the New Super Mario Bros. U style, its design instead resembles ancient Mesoamerican artwork (similar to the Sun from Paper Mario), and has a neutral expression with faint red angry eyebrows. While the text calls it "Angry Sun" in the Enemy section, they are generically called "Sun" by the voice when placed.
The Angry Sun can be defeated by thrown items (such as POW Blocks and Koopa Troopa shells), Bowser Jr. spinning in his shell, Invincible Mario, Spike Balls and Snowballs, and the Big Goomba's Shoe's shockwaves when stomping.

The Angry Sun also appears in The Adventures of Super Mario Bros. 3, starting with the episode "Sneaky Lying Cheating Giant Ninja Koopas". During the episode, the Angry Sun, offended by Mario's statement that "the sun was in his eyes", appears to attack Mario and Luigi after they exit a Warp Tube from Prince Hugo's castle; after several minutes of fleeing the Angry Sun, Mario and Luigi manage to gain a Super Leaf and transform into Raccoon Mario and Raccoon Luigi. With their new powers, Mario and Luigi begin to fly away from the Angry Sun, who catches up to them and is unaware that they are still Mario and Luigi. It asks the two "flying raccoons" if they saw where Mario and Luigi went; Mario responds to the Angry Sun's question by saying that they went to hide behind a cloud, which the Angry Sun hastily flies to.
The Angry Sun makes a minor appearance as part of the Desert Land background in the later episodes "Do the Koopa" and "Crimes R Us"; in the former, it is depicted as white and shown dancing with a pyramid and a sphinx due to the Doom Dancer Music Box, grinning for the first time. The scene of Mario and Luigi avoiding the sun's attack also appears in the show’s end credits.

The Angry Sun appears in the Desert Hills course of Mario Kart DS, where it shoots Fire Snakes onto the course. As Desert Hills returns in Mario Kart Wii, the Angry Sun reprises its role. Angry Sun sprites from Super Mario Bros. 3 are also printed on some carpets in Shy Guy Bazaar in Mario Kart 7 and Mario Kart Tour, and in Bone-Dry Dunes from Mario Kart 8 and Mario Kart 8 Deluxe.

While the Angry Sun does not appear physically in Paper Mario: Color Splash, it is referenced twice, first by one of the Five Fun Guys at Bloo Bay Beach. When Mario pulls out the Toad hiding in the sand, he talks about getting a sunburn and comments, "The sun sure is angry today! You know a thing or two about the Angry Sun, don't ya?"
In Roshambo Temple #6, while introducing Green Pokey as an opponent, the announcer says, "Wearing an armor of sun-kissed spikes, he stalks through the sands with the Angry Sun at his back."

Like in Paper Mario: Color Splash, even though the Angry Sun does not appear in Paper Mario: The Origami King, it is referenced. Upon reaching Scorching Sandpaper Desert, where the sun is missing from the sky, Olivia remarks "Do you think the sun is hiding because it's angry about something?"