Apples in the Super Mario franchise are fruits with a variety of uses throughout their appearances.

Apples in Donkey Kong Jr. are fruit that can be dropped onto enemies to defeat them.

Apples in Donkey Kong Jr. Math are used to display how many points a player has. Once a player gets five points, they win.

Apples in Super Mario Bros. Print World are included within the "Ruler & Apple" border.

Apples in Yoshi resemble the fruits from Super Mario World, and they appear after the player clears levels 6 and 7 of the B-Type game, rewarding 300 points.

Apples in Yoshi's Story are the favorite fruit of Red Yoshi and Pink Yoshi, along with melons, and a part of the Super Happy Tree. If any colored Yoshi eats 30 apples in any level, a picture of an apple will appear behind him and sway back and forth.

The famous apple used by Isaac Newton in Mario's Time Machine was stolen by Bowser to his museum. Mario manages to return the apple to 1687 so that it can properly fall for Newton, allowing him to first speculate on the concept of gravity.

Apples in the Wario Land series can turn Wario can turn into Fat Wario if he eats one thrown to him by an Appleby, in Wario Land 3, or a Ringosukī, in Wario Land 4. Large apple monsters called Bigs appear in Wario Land: Super Mario Land 3.

Apples in Paper Mario are an item that can be obtained in Boo's Mansion. The player can acquire Apples by Spin Jumping on certain wooden boxes in the right room of the first floor of the mansion. They heal five HP, and they are one of the ingredients used to make Apple Pies, the other being Cake Mix.
Apples can be used to make the following recipes:

Apples in Super Paper Mario now appear as Red Apples. More variations of them are introduced, including the taboo Black Apple (which wakes up Princess Peach); the luscious but cursed Golden Apple; the mustache-inducing Yellow Apple; the fruit-transforming Pink Apple; and the shrinking Blue Apple. All apples in this game simply restore five HP, except for the Black Apple, which restores only one when used on a playable character; the above ailments are induced only when they are given to a non-playable character. The more-useful Primordial Fruit introduced earlier in Super Paper Mario also slightly resembles that game's apples, although the two items' exact relations are unknown.

An apple in WarioWare: Touched! is used by Dr. Crygor in the prologue of his stage to demonstrate his recent Tri-phonic Undulating Nanobot Automaton. The core converts into an apple after the demonstration. However, when Dr. Crygor enters the compartment of the TUNA, it closes on him along with the apple. This results in Dr. Crygor being merged with the apple, upgrading him.

Apples in Yoshi Topsy-Turvy are what Bowser transforms the Egglings into when they fly to Yoshi's Island after the Koopa Troop's attack on their homeland. The Spirit Who Loves Cuteness, a friend of the Egglings, is dumbfounded and enlists Yoshi to seek the apples and eat them, which restores the Egglings to their initial forms. The apples in this game are red and green, and, while the two colors of apple can be found doing anything regardless of any kind of coloration code, green ones typically stay in one spot and most red apples glide downward on parachutes.

Apples in Yoshi Touch & Go can each be eaten by Yoshi to give him an egg.

Apples in Mario Sports Mix are objects that can be fed to Petey Piranha in the party game Feed Petey, and are worth 30 points each.

Red apple slices in Yoshi's Woolly World appear in Bonus Games.

Apples in Yoshi's Crafted World are objects that can appear after hitting a Time Cloud, and if Yoshi eats them all within the time limit, a Smiley Flower appears. There are also costumes based on red, yellow, and green apples that Yoshi can wear. While the red and yellow ones are gained from Acorn Forest, the green one is gained from Shadowville.

Apples in Mario Kart Tour do not directly appear, but the Apple Kart and two of its variants, the Green Apple Kart and Poison Apple Kart, are based on them.