Arctic Abyss is the twenty-eighth level of Donkey Kong Country 2: Diddy's Kong Quest and the first level of K. Rool's Keep. This level is the first ice-themed one of the game, excluding Black Ice Battle of the Lost World. Most of the level is flooded, but the Kongs are forcefully transformed into Enguarde for most of the stage. The water level changes at certain points, which means Enguarde cannot return to collectible items when he passes them. In the Game Boy Advance version of the level, the level terrain is green.

When they begin the level, the Kongs must plunge into the water and start swimming. They need to watch out for a few enemies as they go, and also have to squeeze through a tight space with some Puftups around. Soon, they will reach an Animal Barrel and turn into Enguarde. Enguarde must then continue along the path and defeat several foes, including the sneaky Shuries that can come shooting at the fish at any second. Later, the swordfish will have to swim north and avoid a few Puftups, then travel west. The water will go down here, so the fish must go quickly if he wants to find any special prizes. Once he goes the whole way west, he needs to go north and beat some Shuries. Then, he should swim west again and break the Star Barrel. 
From there, Enguarde must swim in a U shape and avoid four Puftups, as well as three Shuries. Then, he should quickly dash east before the water rises, so he can obtain a few more special prizes on the way. After the fish makes it the whole way east, he needs to swim around another U shaped path, and avoid enemies. Eventually, he will have to make his way west and swim fast, before the water level decreases too much. Then, Enguarde must continue east between the cold ice, and defeat four Shuris swimming around him. Then, he needs to move on and beat some Puftups, until the water decreases again. He must trudge over the land if he is stuck, and travel south, where he will meet some Lockjaws. When they are defeated, the swordfish should cross the No Animal Sign, and finally turn back into the Kongs. Diddy and Dixie must jump onto the End of Level Target and exit the stage. End prizes include a banana, a Banana Bunch, Banana Coin, or a Red Balloon.

The following enemies appear in the following quantities:

The following items and objects appear in the following quantities:

Arctic Abyss has two Bonus Levels, listed by type: