The B Dasher is a kart in the Mario Kart series. It is a long, skinny, white kart with a red stripe along the front and a massive engine block with four large exhaust pipes. The emblem is located on the hood. It appears on the box art of Mario Kart DS, and it resembles a classic 1960s Formula 1 car, specifically the Honda RA272, the first Japanese car to win a Formula One race. It is the first vehicle in the series to have a racing car design, a feature that has become a staple in subsequent games. Its name is most likely a reference to the controls of the side-scrolling platform games, in which the player presses and holds the B button to dash. The  button on the Super Famicom and Super Nintendo Entertainment System is also used for acceleration in Super Mario Kart.
In Mario Kart Wii, there is a kart called the B Dasher Mk. 2 (Sprinter in its North American version, which is the B Dasher's Dutch name), which makes it the B Dasher's successor. The Circuit Special is another successor of the B Dasher, as it is called "Sprinter 2.0" in Dutch, and could possibly be a successor of the B Dasher Mk. 2 from Mario Kart Wii as well. The Zucchini is similar in design to the B Dasher, but with a very different paint job.

The B Dasher is a kart in Mario Kart DS. It is Mario's default signature kart. Like the Standard MR, it is balanced in stats and has average speed, handling and drift, good acceleration, and high items and weight; it is one of the heaviest karts in the game. Its speed is tied with the Power Flower; its acceleration is tied with the Royale; its weight is tied with the Streamliner; and its handling and drift are tied with the Zipper. In a minor note, despite its appearance would suggest, it has a weak-sounding two stroke engine, which is the same as Standard Kart. Any characters can use the B Dasher after all gold trophies in 150cc Mirror Mode have been obtained, though Daisy and Waluigi can use this kart after the player has obtained all gold trophies in 150cc Nitro or Retro Grand Prix.

The B Dasher reappears in Mario Kart 7 as an unlockable vehicle and is noticeably more powerful than in Mario Kart DS. It features a speed and handling boost, but its acceleration and off-road stats are hindered during the process. In fact, the B Dasher is tied with the Blue Seven and Bolt Buggy for having the lowest acceleration of all kart bodies. However, it is tied with the Blue Seven, Bruiser, and Zucchini for having the highest speed of all kart bodies and is the fastest kart body to have a positive handling boost and to not have a negative impact on the air speed stat, though it is also the fastest kart body of the four to affect off-road negatively.
It now has a four stroke engine with a large block in the back, resembling an inline-four engine. The engine's sound is shared with the Mini Beast, Wild Wing, and Flame Flyer from Mario Kart Wii.
Equipping the B Dasher with Standard tires makes it resemble the original Mario Kart DS version.

The B Dasher once again returns in Mario Kart 8 as part of the first downloadable content pack, The Legend of Zelda × Mario Kart 8. It uses the same exact stats as the Mach 8, Sports Coupe, Circuit Special, Gold Standard, and P-Wing. The design remains unchanged, aside from the engine being larger and more visible within the exhausts. Normally, it does not possess headlights, but it will gain headlights if racing on a track with dark areas, located between the front wheels and body. Its sound suggests that it is possibly powered by a four-cylinder engine. The B Dasher has a noticeable difference in that the exhaust noise is louder and more audible compared to others. It additionally shares the same engine sound with the P-Wing, resembling that of a DOHC V8 engine.
In Mario Kart 8 Deluxe, it is unlocked randomly by collecting coins, and its stats have been altered so that it now only boosts speed, weight, and anti-gravity speed while hindering every single other stat. The acceleration, handling, and mini-turbo are worsened, while the traction is slightly better than before. The B Dasher now only shares its stats with the Circuit Special and P-Wing. A CPU Mario and Pauline are occasionally seen using this body paired with the Standard tires.

The B Dasher returns in Mario Kart Tour where it is classified as a High-End kart. It uses the Pipe Frame's tires to match its appearance in Mario Kart DS. The B Dasher increases the duration of Dash Panel boosts and the number of points earned for using Dash Panels. The game also introduces five variants named the Black B Dasher, Kabuki Dasher, Red B Dasher, Black Kabuki Dasher, and Gold B Dasher; all five karts share the High-End classification.
Since its introduction in the New York Tour, the B Dasher has appeared in all regular tour pipes, including the All-Clear Pipe, and has been a part of the Daily Selects set. It has also been obtainable through other means, listed below by tour.

The B Dasher is an Ace-class support spirit in Super Smash Bros. Ultimate. It uses its artwork from Mario Kart 7. It takes up one support slot, increasing the power of its user's neutral special moves (for example, Mario's Fireball) when used. The spirit's battle takes place on Figure-8 Circuit, where the player has to face off against a team of Marios who can deal damage by running into the player.