Baby Bowser, also known as Prince Bowser, Bowsie, or Baby Koopa, is a character introduced in Super Mario World 2: Yoshi's Island. He is the infant form of Bowser, and commonly accompanies Kamek as the main antagonist in their appearances, most notably the Yoshi's Island series. Kamek is mainly responsible for his child rearing. Baby Bowser looks almost identical to Bowser Jr., even sometimes sharing his voice. The main difference in the visual design between the two is that Bowser Jr. has a drawing on his bandanna, while Baby Bowser's is blank, or he does not wear it at all.
Adult Bowser has been portrayed as an infant in other media, namely in the episode "Two Plumbers and a Baby" in The Super Mario Bros. Super Show! and the episode "Toddler Terrors of Time Travel" in The Adventures of Super Mario Bros. 3, though the Baby Bowser character is considered a distinct entity from these forms.

Baby Bowser is the final boss in Super Mario World 2: Yoshi's Island and its port. He appears at the end of his castle as Kamek is demanding that Yoshi hand over Baby Mario, waking and complaining that "it's too noisy". He then Ground Pounds Kamek and kicks him away, noticing Yoshi immediately afterward and wanting to ride the "gween donkey." Baby Bowser attacks by ground pounding wherever Yoshi is, creating shockwaves on the ground. In addition, if Baby Mario is knocked off of Yoshi's back, Baby Bowser climbs onto his back instead; if Baby Mario is saved afterward, Baby Bowser will be stunned. Baby Bowser can be hit by ground pounding the ground close to him, and after three hits Baby Bowser is beaten. Kamek shows up and uses his magic on him, causing him to grow into the kaiju-sized Big Baby Bowser, destroying the castle around him. Baby Bowser ends up being returned to his normal size, and knocked out. Afterward, Kamek reappears and vows revenge before flying off with Baby Bowser. Yoshi then sprints up to the Stork and Baby Luigi, freeing them both and allowing the Stork to deliver the babies to their parents. Baby Bowser is also the only boss who must be defeated before Kamek casts a spell on him.

Baby Bowser is a major antagonst in Yoshi's Island DS. Baby Bowser is at his castle when his future self shows up to kidnap the star children and gain control of the universe. Baby Bowser is ironically abducted by the future Kamek from the past Kamek and brought to Bowser's Castle. When he realizes the circumstances, he insults his grown-up self and his plan. Baby Bowser is kicked out of the castle by Bowser, oblivious to Baby Bowser being one of the star children. Baby Bowser vows revenge after landing and then yells into the sky to try and remind his adult self that they are the same entity. Baby Bowser then notices Baby Mario and tells him he saw Baby Luigi in Bowser's Castle. Baby Bowser then realizes that he has just landed on Yoshi and is stoked to get a ride from him. Baby Bowser becomes playable for the remainder of World 4. Baby Bowser's fireball attack replaces Yoshi's ability to swallow, and the attack is essential for melting ice cubes. Once Big Guy the Stilted is defeated, Baby Bowser leaves Yoshi's group in an attempt to hitch a ride from the future Kamek as he flies off to report to the adult Bowser. However, Baby Bowser loses his grip and falls off of Kamek's broomstick. Baby Bowser fought with Baby Wario over treasure at some point, and he rejoins the Yoshis when they reach Bowser's Castle. Baby Bowser eventually betrays them and attacks Yoshi and the other babies, believing they are after his treasure. The fight goes much like the previous one, but faster. After a defeat, Baby Bowser is taken away by Kamek, leaving the group to the future Bowser, who is angry at what Yoshi did to his younger self. In the ending, following adult Bowser's defeat, Baby Bowser falls off Kamek's broom and lands on a barge carrying his treasure, now claimed by Baby Wario, and the two get in a fight again.

Baby Bowser is a major antagonist and the penultimate boss in Yoshi's New Island. He, Kamek, and his older self are all the main antagonists. Baby Bowser's plan is to turn Egg Island into his vacation home, so the Yoshis go out to stop Baby Bowser's plan, as well as rescue Baby Luigi along the way. The end scenario is similar to Super Mario World 2: Yoshi's Island: Baby Bowser is once again awakened from his slumber, only to crush and kick Kamek out. He soon notices the "familiar gween donkey" and proceeds to try and ride Yoshi again. Baby Bowser is fought in a battle reminiscent of his battle in Super Mario World 2: Yoshi's Island. His voice is a higher-pitched version of his future son's voice. After Mega Baby Bowser is defeated, he ends up shrinking back to Baby Bowser and the stork and Baby Luigi are rescued. However, if the Yoshis never used the Flutter Wings, his future self appears out of nowhere, making Yoshi and Baby Mario battle him before they can do so.

Baby Bowser is the main antagonist of Yoshi's Story. He steals the Super Happy Tree and turns the entire island into a pop-up book. The Baby Yoshis, who have been on an adventure to stop Baby Bowser, encounter him in his castle, where Baby Bowser is dueled by one of the Baby Yoshis. Baby Bowser is riding his "pet," and the player can throw Bob-bombs at Baby Bowser to knock him off. Baby Bowser then recites a "poem" about how he is the king, and intends to smash Baby Yoshi and thus demands the latter say goodbye. On the ground, the battle continues with Baby Bowser shooting fireballs, throwing bombs, and generating shockwaves. After a few more hits, Baby Bowser surrenders in defeat. Just before he is carried out by his Toadies while sobbing, Baby Bowser allows the baby Yoshis to have the Super Happy Tree back, admitting that the fruit tasted terrible.
Coincidentally, Prima Games coverage has referred to Baby Bowser as "Bowser Jr.", predating the debut of the actual character in Super Mario Sunshine.

Baby Bowser's artwork from Yoshi's Story is reused as a stamp in Mario Artist: Paint Studio. 

Baby Bowser appears in the form of a few collectible items in the Super Smash Bros. series. In Super Smash Bros. Melee, a trophy of Baby Bowser as he appears in Yoshi's Story can be obtained randomly in single-player modes or from the Lottery randomly. In Super Smash Bros. Ultimate, Baby Bowser is a Legend-class Neutral-type primary spirit with two empty slots and no extra attributes. The spirit battle is a stamina battle which involves first fighting a tiny Bowser on the Omega version of Find Mii. The stage is covered entirely in flames, meaning players get damaged if they have no lava immunity support spirits equipped. After the tiny Bowser is defeated, a large Bowser appears with more HP and with super armor.

Baby Bowser makes a cameo in Yoshi Touch & Go as one of the selectable high score icons. He also appears when Yoshi gets a Game Over with over 3000 yards on the Challenge Mode, laughing with Kamek.

Baby Bowser is the secondary antagonist of Mario & Luigi: Partners in Time. At the start, Baby Bowser is first seen trying to kidnap Baby Peach. Luckily, Baby Mario and Baby Luigi show up in the nick of time to play with Baby Peach. After Baby Mario defeats him however, the Shroobs attack Peach's Castle. Fortunately, everyone manages to escape on Baby Bowser's Koopa Cruiser. On the way to his castle, Baby Bowser picks the Mario and Luigi from the present to get Baby Peach to stop crying. On the Koopa Cruiser, he receives a transmission from Princess Shroob at Shroob Castle. She tells the crew something in the Shroobs' language and shoots down the Koopa Cruiser with a Shroob missile.
Baby Bowser is flung away from the Koopa Cruiser on the impact, into his castle. Eventually, he realizes his archenemies and their adult selves have stolen his Cobalt Star Shard from his castle and tracked them down to the Vim Factory, where he swipes both his Cobalt Star Shard and the one the Bros. have just obtained from Swiggler.
Baby Bowser then flees to the peak of Yoshi's Island with his caretaker, Kamek, where he orders Kamek to snatch the Yoshi Cookies from the Yoshis. When the Mario Bros. catch up to Baby Bowser at the peak, he scarfs down all the Yoshi Cookies, but starts choking. Baby Bowser then leaves to the other side of the peak after Kamek had given him some "evil" milk. While Mario and Luigi try to negotiate with him, Baby Mario and Baby Luigi gobble up all the cookies, causing Baby Bowser to become enraged. He runs off while the Mario Bros. defeat Kamek, and they corner him at the other side of the peak. Without thinking his plans through, Baby Bowser eats the Cobalt Star Shards in retribution for the cookies. As Mario and Luigi restrain him while Baby Mario attacks him to make him cough up the shards, Shroob saucers notice them. Soon after, he and the Mario Bros. are eaten by Yoob.
Inside Yoob, Baby Bowser, along with the Yoshis already eaten, are put inside an egg. When the Mario Bros. confront Sunnycide, a monster within Yoob, he throws the egg Baby Bowser is in at Luigi, breaking it open. After the Mario Bros. defeat Sunnycide, Baby Bowser and all of the swallowed Yoshis escape Yoob.
Back on Yoshi's Island, Baby Bowser tells the Yoshis that he saved them from Yoob. Having believed him, the Yoshis give him the rest of their cookies. Baby Bowser then eats all of the Yoshi Cookies and gets sick. He vomits the Cobalt Star Shards, which, seemingly with a mind of their own, hit him and fling him off of Yoshi's Island. The Mario Bros. and Toadbert show up afterwards to tell the Yoshis that Baby Bowser was lying.
Later on, Baby Bowser heads off to Thwomp Volcano to build a new castle, where he meets his future self, Bowser. After a minor argument, Baby Bowser and Bowser team up, not knowing the other ones identity, against the Mario Bros. They end up being beaten after the battle and flung into the sky by an Thwomp Elevator, where Bowser ends up in a time hole and Baby Bowser ends up on top of the Shroob Mother Ship. 

Baby Bowser shows up again after the Bros. have defeated Princess Shroob and, despite being warned by the adult Princess Peach, he puts the Cobalt Star Shards together and completes the Cobalt Star, releasing the Elder Princess Shroob, who turns him into a Shroob mushroom. After the battle with the Elder Princess Shroob, Baby Mario and Baby Luigi play on Baby Bowser's Shroobified form, until Baby Luigi gets hurt and his tears turn Baby Bowser back to his normal state. While the Mushroom Kingdom is cleansed of all traces of the Shroobs thanks to Professor E. Gadd's Hydrogush, Baby Bowser goes home, complaining about losing the Cobalt Star with Kamek telling him to let it go.

Baby Bowser is the final boss in Yoshi's Woolly World and its reissue. Baby Bowser is the sole baby character of both versions. He retains a similar voice to his future self's son, and he is first seen waiting for Kamek to give him yarn to make "a big new castle". Then, Yoshi suddenly appears and Baby Bowser starts the battle with him. Yoshi must throw a yarn ball (provided by one of three red Shy Guys that periodically fall from the top of the screen) at Baby Bowser, then ground-pound him, and repeat this three times to defeat him. After Baby Bowser is defeated, Kamek later uses the power of the Wonder Wool to make him transform into Mega Baby Bowser. After the Wonder Wool finally unravels, causing all of the single-color-and-white Yoshis to return back to normal, Baby Bowser is taken away by Kamek, and is last seen near a moon with Kamek carrying him. Poochy pops out from behind the moon, causing Kamek to get spooked and accidentally drops Baby Bowser as the game's closing credits begin to roll.

Baby Bowser reappears alongside Kamek as one of the two main antagonists in Yoshi's Crafted World. Baby Bowser is once again the only baby character to appear. During the start of the game, he is seen riding on Kamek after he learned about the Sundream Stone, where Kamek casts a spell pulling the Sundream Stone, resulting in the Yoshis pulling and tackling the Sundream Stone, resulting in Baby Bowser, Kamek, the Yoshis and the Sundream Stone flying into a forest, with the Sundream Stone's five Dream Gems being scattered around the island. Unlike in the game's predecessor, Baby Bowser actively searches with Kamek for the Dream Gems. In the first level, Rail-Yard Run, Kamek and Baby Bowser appear and disassemble the train, preventing Yoshi from progressing. The pair are also responsible for creating all the bosses at the end of each area in the main game. The bosses they summon in order are Yarrctopus, Tin-Can Condor, Spike the Piranha, Burt the Ball, Shogun of Skewers, Gator Train, and Mr. Geary. Lastly, Baby Bowser is the final boss of the game, with the exception of Kamek being the secret final boss.
Baby Bowser's battle is a battle with the robot that was created by the Sundream Stone for him through his wish. After Mega Baby Bowser is defeated, he reverts back to Baby Bowser and Kamek picks him up and flies away with him as the game comes to an end.

Baby Bowser shares many physical qualities with his adult counterpart, Bowser. They both have red hair and black cuffs on their arms. Baby Bowser has cuffs on his neck in both Super Mario World 2: Yoshi's Island and Yoshi's Story. In these appearances, Baby Bowser appears with spiked cuffs, while in Mario & Luigi: Partners in Time and Yoshi's Island DS, his cuffs appear with no spikes. Like Bowser, Baby Bowser has two red eyebrows (black on his Super Mario World 2: Yoshi Island's sprite), a green shell with spikes, and two small nostrils on his nose. Baby Bowser also has claws on his hands and his feet. Unlike Bowser, Baby Bowser either has no horns or his horns are small and stubby, much like Bowser Jr.'s, depending on the game. When Baby Bowser is in the dark in Yoshi's Island, he is shown to have yellow eyeshine. Additionally, he sports deep red blush on his cheeks in Yoshi's Island, a trait that is omitted from later depictions (barring his debut game's reissue). Overall, his current physical appearance is nearly identical to that of his future son Bowser Jr. with the only difference being that he has a blank bandanna or no bandana at all. In Mario & Luigi: Partners in Time, Baby Bowser was given some resemblances to Bowser Jr.

His personality is that of a spoiled child. He frequently throws tantrums in hopes that his minions will give him what he wants. Also, unlike his adult self who is generally caring if a little short-tempered towards his minions, he is shown to be very abusive and disrespectful to them, which is best demonstrated by how he flattens Kamek, his guardian, after the latter accidentally woke him when confronting Yoshi and demanding Baby Mario in two separate instances, as well as implied in key artwork for Yoshi's New Island, where Baby Bowser had beaten Kamek with the latter's wand while undergoing a tantrum. He is greedy and also very gluttonous, as shown in Mario & Luigi: Partners in Time, where he eats a huge pile of Yoshi Cookies and the Cobalt Star shards with Toadbert calling him a "little piggie". He even insulted his future self in Yoshi's Island DS and Mario & Luigi: Partners in Time. He was also shown to be extremely protective of his treasure to the extent of being paranoid, turning on his allies in an instant if he even slightly suspected that they may be after it, as demonstrated in Yoshi's Island DS. In Super Mario World 2: Yoshi's Island and Yoshi's New Island, Baby Bowser has a tendency to speak in baby-like language, with phrases such as "gween donkey" being heard from him. Even though Baby Bowser shows no awareness of his future archenemy, Baby Mario, in Yoshi's Island or Yoshi's New Island (even simply shoving him aside so he could ride Yoshi), he does directly reference the latter in Yoshi's Story by referring to Yoshi as "Mario's little pet." Owing to his age, he also tended to mispronounce words that have "l"s or "r"s, having them come out as "w"s, mispronouncing his "th"s as "d"s, as well as mispronouncing his "i"s as "y"s, as evidenced by his speeches to Kamek and Yoshi in both Yoshi's Island and Yoshi's New Island.

Even as a child, Baby Bowser demonstrated some of his adult self's traits, such as breathing fire (Either large streams of fire or fireballs) and possessing a surprising amount of strength. He can also Ground Pound and Flutter like Yoshi. He can also summon minions to attack, which is demonstrated with both his pet and some Shy Guys. In Mario & Luigi: Partners in Time, he has a hammer just like the baby bros. Unlike Bowser, he seems to be more active and has a bigger appetite.
When enhanced by Kamek to become Big Baby Bowser, Baby Bowser also demonstrates some degree of telekinesis, as rubble is seen being lifted as he roars and lifts his hands up. He also is shown to breath massive fireballs, either directly at Yoshi or spraying them upwards to descend in an arc. He can also ground pound, with the quakes being potent enough to literally reshift the ground by raising it upward or sink downward.

In Yoshi's Island, his "voice" is composed of three record-skips at a low volume, two when ground-pounding (as well as brief roar when yawning). In Yoshi's Story, he has a youthful, yet at the same time rasping element to his voice; when he takes damage, he uses a slightly higher-pitched version of his adult self's stock roar. In Yoshi's Island DS, he reuses the same laugh as Boo, which is also a sped-up version of the same stock laugh used for his adult self in Super Mario 64. In most games since Partners in Time, he was given a similar voice to Bowser Jr., albeit with a slightly higher pitch. 
In most games, he speaks with a text box with limited voiced dialogue. His form of speech also varies from game to game: in some games, such as Yoshi's Island or Yoshi's New Island, he speaks in a somewhat childish way, using broken English and replacing some letters with "w" (e.g. "gween" instead of "green"). In other games, like Yoshi's Story and Mario & Luigi: Partners in Time, however, he speaks in fluent English.