Baby Mario (originally formatted as baby Mario) is the infant form of Mario who appears as a major character in the Yoshi's Island series. Baby Mario, with Yoshi helping him, is often rescuing his younger brother, Baby Luigi, who is carried off by Kamek in several games. Shortly after his debut, Baby Mario has become a recurring playable character in spinoff games of the Super Mario franchise.
Adult Mario has been portrayed as an infant in other media, namely in the The Adventures of Super Mario Bros. 3 episode "Toddler Terrors of Time Travel" and the comic "Family Album 'The Early Years'," though Baby Mario is considered a distinct entity from these forms.

Baby Mario is one of the main protagonists in Super Mario World 2: Yoshi's Island and its remake. Here, the Stork is on his way to deliver Baby Mario and Baby Luigi to their parents in the Mushroom Kingdom. Kamek, however, has predicted that the Mario Brothers will cause problems for the Koopas in the future, and he attempts to kidnap the babies. He successfully kidnaps Baby Luigi and the Stork, while Baby Mario falls into Yoshi's Island and lands on the back of Yoshi. Yoshi brings Baby Mario to the other Yoshis, and they decide to help Baby Mario rescue Baby Luigi from Kamek and Baby Bowser. After they journey throughout the worlds, they reach Baby Bowser's Castle, where they battle Baby Bowser. After defeating him, Yoshi and Baby Mario rescue Baby Luigi. Then, the brothers are brought back to their parents.

Baby Mario is a major protagonist in Yoshi's Island DS. He is one of the babies kidnapped by Kamek in his search for the star children. The Stork arrives just in time, however, and manages to rescue Baby Mario, who drops onto Yoshi's back as in the original Yoshi's Island game. He is one of the babies who accompany the Yoshis on their quest to rescue the other children that Kamek has kidnapped. As the other babies in this game, Baby Mario possesses special abilities that he can use to assist the Yoshis. His powers enable the Yoshi that is carrying him to dash quickly, as well as causing M Blocks to be visible. Baby Mario, the Yoshis, and the other babies eventually succeed in rescuing all the children from Kamek and Bowser, after which he is revealed to be one of the seven star children.

Baby Mario is a major protagonist in Yoshi's New Island. The Stork, after having found out that he delivered Mario and Luigi to the wrong house, is frantically trying to find the correct one. He is soon attacked by Kamek and a group of Toadies, who kidnap Baby Luigi and the Stork, leaving Baby Mario falling onto Egg Island near some Yoshis. Baby Mario begins "crawling with determination" in order to try and locate his brother. The Yoshis decide that Egg Island is too dangerous for a baby, so they take turns giving him a ride as they try to rescue Baby Luigi, and defeat Baby Bowser. Unlike before, more babies join along Baby Mario on his adventure.
After Baby Bowser and his older self are both defeated, the Stork takes Baby Mario and Baby Luigi to their correct parents.

Although Baby Mario himself does not appear at all in Yoshi's Story, he was referenced by Baby Bowser just prior to the final battle against him, where he refers to the Yoshi that challenges him as being "Mario's little pet."

Baby Mario appears in the manga series Super Mario-kun several times. His first appearance is issue 14, where it is based on Super Mario World 2: Yoshi's Island. The volume starts off with adult Mario and Luigi traveling to the past in order to stop Bowser from helping Kamek kidnap Baby Mario and Baby Luigi. The adult Mario Bros. also help Yoshi deliver Baby Mario. Volume 15 also contains story arcs relating to Super Mario World 2: Yoshi's Island, where Baby Mario can be seen in Superstar Mario form.
In Volume 25, during the Mario Tennis arc, Mario gets turned into Baby Mario in the middle of a tennis match.

Volumes 35, 36, and 37 have story arcs based on Mario & Luigi: Partners in Time. The beginning of Volume 36 leaves off when Baby Mario and the others are in Yoshi's Island, shortly after they realize that Baby Mario can store water; this eventually helps the brothers beat Baby Bowser and Kamek. Later, during a fight against Petey Piranha, Baby Mario wears a shell that helps him snatch a Cobalt Star Shard from Petey Piranha. In Chapter 7, Baby Mario teams up with Mario against Luigi and Baby Luigi after a Tanoomba tricks them to turn into each other; eventually, the brothers realize their mistake and team up and beat the Tanoomba.
Baby Mario is seen on the cover of volume 40, which is based off of Mario & Luigi: Bowser's Inside Story, though he himself does not appear in the story arcs in this volume; the cover for volume 40 is a tribute to the Super Mario franchise.

Baby Mario does not physically appear in Super Mario RPG: Legend of the Seven Stars. According to Japanese script, however, he is briefly referenced when Magikoopa (Wizakoopa in the Super Mario RPG for the Nintendo Switch remake) appears to recognize Mario as the baby from the past.

Baby Mario is a playable character in the Nintendo 64 version of Mario Golf. He is a basic character, being a default character out of four. Baby Mario has a weak draw shot, meaning his shots have a small curve to the left, with a drive of 215 yards. In result, he is the strongest of all the default characters in single-player modes, as he can send the ball the furthest, but his ability to hit the ball is compromised by his lower control and sweet spot.
Baby Mario is a non-playable character in the Game Boy Color version.

Baby Mario is a playable character in both the Nintendo 64 version and Game Boy Color version of Mario Tennis. He is a speed character who offers more power than other characters of this type, although Baby Mario lacks reach. He also shares a stage with Yoshi, simply titled the Baby Mario and Yoshi Court. His tennis racket's insignia is a lowercase letter M. Uniquely in the Game Boy Color version is a minigame starring Baby Mario, Baby Mario Target Shot.

In Mario Power Tennis, Baby Mario, alongside Baby Luigi, makes a cameo appearance in the opening of the game. They can be seen only in the first match, where Mario and Luigi defeat Wario and Waluigi, and in the first blooper reel of the credits where Mario accidentally hits Luigi with a tennis ball. They are also seen on the left of the screen showing Wario and Waluigi, upset about their loss, when the camera zooms out to show the multiple scenes Bowser is spying on.

Baby Mario is a playable character in Mario Tennis Open. This is Baby Mario's first unlockable appearance, and the player can unlock him by completing Level 3 of the Special Game, Super Mario Tennis. His insignia on his tennis racket is now updated and has an uppercase letter M like his adult self, but with bonnet frills around the letter M. As in all Mario Tennis games that he was previously playable in, he is a speed character, who lacks at reach due to his size, but makes up for increased stroke power. Baby Mario's racket costs 1200 coins in the Clubhouse for Miis to be able to use.

Baby Mario appears as a trophy in Super Smash Bros. Melee, Super Smash Bros. Brawl, and Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS. Additionally, he has two stickers in Super Smash Bros. Brawl. Baby Mario also reappears as a spirit in Super Smash Bros. Ultimate. Baby Mario is a neutral-type Advanced class spirit who can be enhanced into Superstar Mario at Level 99. Superstar Mario is a Legend class spirit with a First-Strike Immunity special ability. In Baby Mario's spirit battle, the player must eliminate a tiny Mario who avoids conflict in the  Yoshi's Island stage; he is teamed up with a team of Yoshis who defend him. In addition, Baby Mario also appears in the Stork and Goo-Goo Buggy spirit alongside Baby Luigi in both cases.
In Super Smash Bros. Brawl, Baby Mario's trophy states that he does not wear overalls, which contradicts his trophy appearance. The phrase was corrected to "Even then he wore overalls" in the European version.

Baby Mario is a playable character in Mario Kart: Double Dash!!. He and his default partner, Baby Luigi, are both starters of the light-weight class, and are paired by default. Baby Mario's default kart is the Goo-Goo Buggy. The babies' special item is a Chain Chomp, which can lead Baby Mario and Baby Luigi through the course, knocking other karts out of the way. They share their own course, Baby Park, which reappears in Mario Kart DS, Mario Kart 8 (as DLC), Mario Kart 8 Deluxe, and Mario Kart Tour. Baby Mario and Baby Luigi appear as staff ghosts in Baby Park and Sherbet Land, though Baby Mario is the primary character in Baby Park.

Baby Mario and Baby Luigi also make a cameo appearance in Mario Kart Arcade GP 2, with several notable characters. Here, they can be seen throughout Yoshi Park 1 and have a sponsor, Baby Land, seen throughout other courses.

Baby Mario is a playable character in Mario Kart Wii. Baby Mario is one of the starters, though is still a small character, having a weight of +3 and a handling of +2. His weight bonus, with Baby Luigi, is the largest in the game out of all bonuses, and it grants him a significant edge when it comes to that stat. Unlike Mario Kart: Double Dash!!, Baby Mario does not have his own vehicles, as the other characters, but the vehicles available to him get a different paint job than other characters. His vehicles are mainly blue and red. In Time Trials, Baby Mario appears as an official staff ghost in N64 Mario Raceway and SNES Mario Circuit 3.

Baby Mario returns as a playable racer in Mario Kart 8. His insignia is changed from being identical to Mario's in Mario Kart Wii to his insignia from Mario Tennis Open, with the colors reversed from Mario's usual emblem. Baby Mario is a lightweight racer, potentially getting the best possible acceleration, handling, and traction with his vehicle combos; in fact, he, along with the other baby characters and Lemmy Koopa, are the lightest characters in the game. His speed and weight are his weaknesses, being among the slowest and lightest characters in the game. Occasionally, if Baby Mario is a CPU, he uses the Biddybuggy body paired with Standard tires. In Time Trials, Nin★Rie uses Baby Mario as an official staff ghost in GBA Mario Circuit and Nin★Joost uses him in GCN Baby Park.
Baby Mario returns in Mario Kart 8 Deluxe. He now shares stats with Baby Luigi, Dry Bones, and small Miis and has two rivals for Grand Prix races, being Bowser Jr. and Baby Peach. He is also the 200cc staff ghost for Water Park and the normal staff ghost for Wii Coconut Mall.

Baby Mario is a playable downloadable character in Mario Kart Arcade GP DX. He is a lightweight character who has low speed and acceleration, but has very high handling, sharing these statistics with Baby Peach and King Boo.

Baby Mario appears in Mario Kart Tour as part of the base game's roster. He is classified as a Normal character, and his special skill is the Boomerang Flower. A variant of Baby Mario in koala-themed apparel, referred to as Baby Mario (Koala), appears as a High-End driver; introduced for the April–May 2021 Sydney Tour, he has the Heart as his special skill. The koala variant was also referenced in the official Mario Kart Tour social media post announcing the second Sydney Tour.
The game considers Baby Mario to be an altogether separate character from his adult form: he is not an eligible driver to use for in-game challenges that require the player to perform certain actions as Mario in a race, unlike Metal Mario, Mario (Racing) and the other variants of Mario.

Baby Mario is a protagonist in Yoshi Touch & Go. The game starts off with Kamek knocking Baby Mario off the Stork and taking Baby Luigi captive. The player has to guide Baby Mario to the ground using clouds and trapping enemies in bubbles. When he reaches the ground, a Yoshi is at the bottom, saving him when all his balloons pop, where they then pursue Kamek and his Toadies to rescue Baby Luigi. In this game, Baby Mario can also turn into Superstar Mario when a star is touched, allowing him to defeat any enemy by running into them and shoot an endless amount of stars at enemies. Yoshi Touch & Go is the only Yoshi's Island game where Baby Mario is more extensively voiced; other Yoshi's Island games have Baby Mario voice only the crying sound effect when he is trapped in a bubble.

Baby Mario is a playable character in the Mario Baseball series. He is a starter character in both Mario Superstar Baseball and Mario Super Sluggers. Baby Mario is a right handed pitcher and batter by default. He is a speed character having fast running average pitching but weak batting and fielding and he has the Wall Jump ability. In order for Baby Mario to become a superstar, he must complete his six missions, one which is unique to him. He has good chemistry with Baby Luigi and Yoshi and bad chemistry with Shy Guy. Baby Mario is a member of Yoshi's team in each game's Challenge mode. In Mario Super Sluggers, Baby Mario plays like Toadette, both having Enlarge as their ability, but their only difference is their tackle.
In Challenge Mode of Mario Super Sluggers, the player learns that Baby Mario is trapped in the Mario Stadium by Bowser Jr. after Baby Luigi is rescued. After Bowser Jr. is defeated, he is set free. Baby Mario then joins the player's team.

Baby Mario and his brother Baby Luigi, star alongside Mario and Luigi in Mario & Luigi: Partners in Time. Baby Mario and Baby Luigi first meet their adult selves in Hollijolli Village after the adult Mario brothers have been defeated by Shroobs. They then team up in order to save the Mushroom Kingdom from the Shroobs. Baby Mario spends much of the adventure riding Mario piggyback. He and Baby Luigi eventually acquire hammers in the Vim Factory. After traveling throughout the past, defeating enemies, and eventually rescuing Princess Peach, Baby Mario and company halt the Shroob invasion. Baby Mario, alongside any other character who has originated from the past, return back to their original time period. Prior to returning to the past, Baby Mario gives Mario his hammer as a good-bye gift.
In battle, Baby Mario battles identically to his brother, Baby Luigi. His default attack is jumping on foes, and, when Baby Mario acquires the hammer, can use a hammer to attack spiked foes. The player can time Baby Mario's attacks in order for him to do more damage. When Baby Mario is riding on Mario's back, he can engage in battle when the player presses the appropriate command button at the appropriate time. In piggyback mode, Mario takes all the damage for Baby Mario; when Mario faints, Baby Mario takes his place. If Baby Mario faints in battle, either Luigi or Baby Luigi holds him to avoid enemy attacks. If Baby Luigi faints, Baby Mario carries him; this hinders Baby Mario's dodging capabilities. Baby Mario has more attack and speed than Baby Luigi, but less HP and defense. Compared to his older self, Baby Mario has a lot more speed, being the fastest of the quartet, but lacks in all other traits, with low power and the lowest amount of HP and Stache points, and the worst defense.
Baby Mario acquires several overworld traits as he ventures through the game. When Baby Mario and Baby Luigi acquire hammers, they also learn to use the Baby Drill, which lets them dig underground underneath obstacles; it can also be used to get Beans. Mario and Luigi can Spin Jump into Baby Mario and Baby Luigi, causing the Baby Spin, which allows Baby Mario and Baby Luigi to access areas that previous cannot be accessed with the Spin Jump. Mario and Luigi can also roll a Bros. Ball into Baby Mario and Baby Luigi, turning them into Baby Cakes. This enables them to slip through wafer-thin areas that cannot be accessed using the Baby Drill. Baby Mario can also use the Baby Pump technique to put out fires and activate switches: similar to the form in the past games, Baby Luigi can hit him to make him spit water out.

Baby Mario makes a cameo in Mario & Luigi: Paper Jam on one of Luigi's Battle Cards, alongside his brother and their adult counterparts.

In the WarioWare series, Baby Mario appears riding on Yoshi's back in one of 9-Volt's microgames, Yoshi, in WarioWare: D.I.Y. He also appears in WarioWare Gold, where he must be saved from a bubble in the Yoshi's Island microgame. Baby Mario reappears in WarioWare: Move It! in the  Super Mario World 2: Yoshi's Island microgame, where he is on a blue Yoshi, and the two must escape from a Chomp Shark. His brother appears in the two-player version of the microgame on an orange Yoshi.

A parameter file for Costume Marios in Super Mario Maker references Baby Mario, among other characters that do not have costumes, but none of the unused costumes have graphics associated with them. However, in a later update, a costume of Baby Mario has been added, basing off his appearance in Super Mario World 2: Yoshi's Island.

Baby Mario is a playable captain-type character in Mario Sports Superstars. His general trait is his speed, where he is categorized with that type in baseball, tennis, soccer, and horse racing. Due to his speedy trait, Baby Mario can move around quickly and thus easily catch balls that are out of his reach in tennis and soccer, as well as quickly run around bases and in the outfield in baseball. In baseball, Baby Mario has mostly identical stats to Baby Luigi, barring his pitching type and his hand use, where he is a right-handed batter and a right-handed pitcher. Baby Mario's pitching types are Fastballs, Screwballs, Curveballs, and Sliders; in comparison to Baby Luigi, Baby Mario trades the Sinker for the Curveball ability. In normal stats, Baby Mario has a higher pitching velocity than Baby Luigi, meaning his pitch top speed is faster, but when Baby Luigi is a superstar character, he overtakes Baby Mario in terms of velocity. As all speed characters, however, Baby Mario has low stamina and tires out quickly, meaning the meter while pitching speeds up at a quicker rate than most characters. In soccer, Baby Mario has weaker shooting, power, stamina, and defense stats than his brother, Baby Luigi, but he has higher passing and finesse than Baby Luigi; they both share the same speed stats. In tennis, Baby Mario has very low reach due to his small size, meaning he has trouble hitting out of reach balls if his speed does not cover distance. Baby Mario offers the most power out of all speed characters on the flipside, meaning he can still hit fairly powerful shots back. In horse racing, Baby Mario has very similar stats to Baby Luigi: in comparison to Baby Luigi, Baby Mario trades off horse top speed for stamina, meaning his horses take more stamina to tire out at the cost of being slightly slower than Baby Luigi. In horse racing, the CPU Baby Mario uses the brown default technique horse. In Pro difficulty, the CPU Baby Mario equips his horse with the red Asian accessories.
In golf, Baby Mario's ball trajectory is straight, which is a change from his draw trajectory in his prior appearance in Mario Golf for the Nintendo 64. Additionally, Baby Mario's ball altitude is lower than Mario's altitude, another character who has a straight trajectory, meaning that Baby Mario's shots are less affected by wind than Mario's shots, but he has more trouble hitting balls to higher heights to avoid obstacles. Out of the characters with straight trajectories, Baby Mario has a lower drive than Mario, Yoshi, Bowser Jr., and Pink Gold Peach while hitting further than Peach's drive, at 207 yards, but offers more control and an increased sweet spot range. When Baby Mario is starred, he receives less impact penalty than both Mario and Yoshi due him having a lower drive.

If Baby Mario attains a par, he waves to the camera while running. If he attains a birdie, he recreates Mario's birdie animation, but does not grab a Super Star. If he attains better than a birdie, he grabs a cluster of balloons and floats up in the air. If he attains a bogey, he sits on the ground, and if he attains worse than a bogey, gives up, or loses a hole, he sits on the ground again and bursts out crying in a big temper tantrum.
Baby Mario receives 5 amiibo cards from this game, part of the series of cards that are released alongside this game. Only his golf and tennis cards reuse artwork; the rest of the sports feature Baby Mario in original poses. When players tap Baby Mario's amiibo cards in, they can unlock Super Mushroom-themed gear which Baby Mario can use.

In Dr. Mario World, Baby Mario appears as an unlockable playable character (referred to as Dr. Baby Mario). Dr. Baby Mario is available on September 5, 2019 alongside Dr. Baby Luigi, Dr. Baby Peach, and Dr. Baby Daisy. Dr. Baby Mario's skill changes random objects into exploders in both stage and versus modes. Viruses are targeted first for being changed before certain other objects are targeted. Coins, capsules, objects that can eliminate viruses (e.g. Shell) and objects that cannot be eliminated (e.g. Empty Block) are unaffected. In stage mode, only one object is changed, while in versus mode, the amount of objects affected is different based on level where it is 2 at level one and 10 at the maximum level (1 and 9 respectively prior to season 7 in versus mode).

In The Super Mario Bros. Movie, Luigi has a flashback while looking down at a castle as he is being kidnapped by Shy Guys and Snifits. The castle resembles a toy castle that he, as Baby Luigi, built at a preschool. A bully kicks and destroys the castle, but Baby Mario jumps in, hits the bully, and holds the bully off.

Despite not appearing as often as other Super Mario characters, Baby Mario has received considerable merchandising, especially as mini figures and plush toys. Baby Mario has also been featured in several Mario Kart Wii pull-back karts and keychains along with Baby Luigi, Baby Peach, and Baby Daisy. Baby Mario is also featured with Baby Luigi and Baby Peach as official San-ei plushies. Baby Mario is also in a set of mini 2 inch PVC figures. Most of his merchandise are Japan exclusives, but they are available in online retailers and in retailers with Japanese imports. The World of Nintendo line of Nintendo merchandise also contains a Baby Mario plush.

Baby Mario is mostly brave and courageous just like his adult counterpart, such as when he constantly rescues Baby Luigi. His Mario Superstar Baseball character title and Super Smash Bros. Brawl trophy information, however, describe him as a crybaby. He is also very energetic, as seen as when he wins a race in Mario Kart Wii and when he scores a homerun in the Mario Baseball games. Baby Mario is also very playful when he joins his adult counterparts and his baby companions in kart races, tennis games, and baseball games. Mario & Luigi: Partners in Time also shows that he is rather impulsive, and Baby Mario's brash use of his hammer has gotten him and the others in trouble multiple times throughout the game.
In the Super Mario-Kun volumes that are adapted from Mario & Luigi: Partners in Time, Baby Mario is able to speak in full sentences. As in the games, he is shown to be brave and willing to do whatever it takes to overcome the enemy; an example of this is when he deliberately fills himself up with an excess amount of water to stop Kamek's large wildfire. Similarly to his brother, he is naive, and he and his brother undertake some actions that annoy their older selves, such as making food out of sand when their older selves need real food.

Baby Mario has been portrayed by Charles Martinet ever since his appearance in Mario Golf which has been retained ever since then. He typically sounds upbeat and excited, not too different from his older self, albeit filtered to sound higher-pitched.

Baby Mario has beady black eyes and his large trademark nose. Baby Mario has a layer of brown hair always covered by his trademark 'M' hat. Like most of the babies, his outfit eventually changed. Unlike his adult self, he has bare hands and wears short-leg overalls.
In his appearances in the Yoshi's Island series, as well as any media relating to Yoshi's Island, Baby Mario wears simply a white diaper and his hat. He wears a yellow cape whenever he acquires a Super Star and turns into Superstar Mario. Starting with Mario Golf, Baby Mario wears an outfit designed after his adult self, Mario which he continues to wear in his spin-off appearances, sometimes with minor adjustments. Originally, the red shirt is short-sleeved during the Nintendo 64 era, but his shirt is currently long sleeved as his adult self as of Mario Kart: Double Dash!!. He also wears a pair of light blue and white sneakers; in Mario & Luigi: Partners in Time, Baby Mario has been erroneously depicted with red shoes in his solo artwork, as Baby Mario wears light blue shoes in other artwork for the game. In art for Yoshi's Island games and in Nintendo 64 games, Baby Mario's sideburns are pointed (but with still a notch to suggest adult Mario's sideburns; the Nintendo 64 art lacks the notch), but his sideburns in most other games are rounded as adult Mario's sideburns.
In the Super Mario-Kun manga, Baby Mario has been depicted having large, round, featured eyes with a pupil instead of the simple, beady black eyes as in the games. In the Mario & Luigi: Partners in Time-themed story arcs, Baby Mario's clothes are shaded black to differentiate himself from Baby Luigi when his hat insignia and his head cannot be seen. He also has a full set of teeth in the manga rather than a single tooth in the games. In the English localization Super Mario Manga Mania, Baby Mario and Baby Luigi talk in a choppy manner (""I protect princess!"; "Old me! Your chance... Attack monster!").
Baby Mario's emblem was originally a lowercase M in Mario Tennis, but Mario Superstar Baseball and subsequent games changed his emblem to an uppercase M as his adult self, until Mario Tennis Open and Mario Kart 8, where the upper case M is surrounded by frills.

In Super Mario World 2: Yoshi's Island and Yoshi's Island DS, Baby Mario can turn into Superstar Mario when Yoshi comes into contact with a Super Star. In this form, Baby Mario can climb up walls and use his cape to float. In Yoshi's Island DS, Baby Mario grants Yoshi speed and the ability for M blocks to appear.
Baby Mario is also shown to be very speedy because he is a speed or lightweight character in every single Super Mario franchise spin-off to date. Baby Mario has a very high Speed stat in Mario & Luigi: Partners in Time, by default, the highest speed stat out of the other characters. In Mario Superstar Baseball, however, Baby Luigi is faster than Baby Mario, and in Mario Kart Wii, Baby Luigi has a small top speed special attribute. In Mario Super Sluggers, however, Baby Mario and Baby Luigi's speed are equal. In the Mario Tennis series, Baby Mario is usually the most powerful Speed character, and, as his adult self, he is often shown to be stronger than his brother, as evident in the Mario Baseball series and Mario & Luigi: Partners in Time.

Baby Mario and Baby Luigi share a special bond as twin brothers, allowing Baby Mario to seek out his kidnapped brother with the help of the Yoshis during their debut appearance in Yoshi's Island. They are default partners in Mario Kart Double Dash!!, and are often seen together, as evident in Mario Power Tennis and Mario Kart Arcade GP 2. In Mario & Luigi: Partners in Time, the brothers fight side-by-side, and if one falls in battle, the other one will carry him and defend him from the enemies. They also partner up and share good chemistry in various sports and spin-off games. Baby Luigi's site bio for Mario Kart Wii, however, heavily implies that Baby Mario has a sibling rivalry with Baby Luigi, which is parallel to Mario's competitive nature with Luigi. In the Super Mario-Kun volumes, particularly the Mario & Luigi: Partners in Time-based ones, if Baby Luigi gets hurt, Baby Mario reacts furiously to the offenders and quickly retaliates by attacking them. Aside from his brother, Baby Mario is also good friends with Baby Peach, and protects her from their enemy, Baby Bowser.
In Mario & Luigi: Partners in Time, Mario acts as a parental figure for both Baby Mario and Baby Luigi; he also expresses frustration with Luigi when he directs his anger at them, attempts to calm the babies whenever they cry, and playfully tosses Baby Mario, clearly enjoying his company. The feeling is mutual, and Baby Mario even gives Mario his hammer as a gift before they part ways at the end of the game. Additionally, in Yoshi's New Island, adult Mario, disguised as Mr. Pipe, has aided Baby Mario and Yoshi if they are struggling by giving them powerful items such as Flutter Wings, Golden Flutter Wings, and Eggs. Despite their good relationship in Mario & Luigi: Partners in Time, Baby Mario and Mario have a neutral chemistry in both Mario Superstar Baseball and Mario Super Sluggers.

Baby Mario's profiles and statistics typically highlight his diminutive size and power correlation, in which his power varies from game to game. He is always a speedy character in all games he is playable in. Some bios, specifically his Mario Kart: Double Dash!!, Mario Superstar Baseball, and Mario Kart 8 bios, lampshade how he and his adult self are playable at the same time.