Baby Daisy is a minor character in the Super Mario franchise created to be the infant counterpart of Princess Daisy. Her first appearance is in Mario Kart Wii as an unlockable playable character, whose debut is similar to that of Toadette in Mario Kart: Double Dash!!. Baby Daisy made her next playable appearance in Mario Super Sluggers, along with other baby characters such as Baby Mario, Baby Luigi, Baby Peach and Baby DK, and has since continued making playable appearances in certain spin-offs.

Baby Daisy makes her first game appearance in the Super Mario franchise as a lightweight unlockable character in Mario Kart Wii. Like Baby Mario, Baby Luigi and Baby Peach, Baby Daisy is the infant counterpart of her adult persona, Princess Daisy. She is added to the game's roster by obtaining at least one Star Rank for all 50cc Wii Grand Prix Cups or playing 1,950 races. Baby Daisy shares the same small-sized karts as the others, but in her own personal style. In one of the courses, Daisy Circuit, there is a large golden statue of Baby Daisy with Baby Luigi holding her in mid-air. She is the staff ghost character for Moo Moo Meadows. Baby Daisy is given a decent speed bonus, weight bonus, and mini-turbo bonus, which makes vehicles like the Bullet Bike move faster than normal, perform slightly stronger mini-turbos after a drift, and weigh slightly more than usual.

Baby Daisy makes a reappearance as a playable racer in Mario Kart 8. Unlike in Mario Kart Wii, she appears as a default character. She is a lightweight character, in the group of characters that have the highest acceleration, handling, and grip but with the lowest speed and weight, alongside the other baby characters and Lemmy Koopa. When she uses the Peach Parasol as a glider, it becomes orange like her adult counterpart. This game also introduces a new emblem for Baby Daisy, being a daisy inside orange bonnet frills (previously, Baby Daisy's emblem was the same as that of her adult counterpart).
Baby Daisy returns in Mario Kart 8 Deluxe, the enhanced Nintendo Switch port. She now shares stats with only Baby Peach, being among the lightest characters in the game, as well as having the best handling and traction. Her signature vehicle combo is the Wild Wiggler with Wooden Tires and the Flower Glider.

Baby Daisy appears in Mario Kart Tour as a Normal character. Her special item is the Bubble. In the closed beta test, however, her special item was the Triple Mushrooms. Baby Daisy and Baby Luigi are the only babies that do not have an alternate variant, and is the only princess baby with this distinction.

Baby Daisy makes her second appearance in Mario Super Sluggers as an unlockable participant. When she is on the batting side for the team she participates in, her bat is a large baby rattle, like Baby Peach's. However, Baby Daisy's rattle is a deep yellow rather than pink, as each of the two babies' rattles corresponds to their signature colors. Since Baby Daisy is considered to be a Team Player, she has no specific special move, but can use star powers to improve the ability of her batting or pitching. Baby Daisy has good chemistry with Baby Mario, Baby Luigi, Baby Peach, Baby DK and Yoshi. Her special move is the same as Daisy's and Shy Guy's, the Super Dive, and she also shares the same batting and pitching as them, left and right.
In order for Baby Daisy to be added to the overall roster, the player has to go through the Challenge Mode process and solve the events in relation to her. In order to do this, the player has to use Yoshi to access a remote area of the Peach Ice Garden, where Baby Daisy can be found crying. In a conversation between Yoshi, Baby Daisy and, Lakitu, who translates her gibberish for him, she explains that Bowser Jr. scared her while she was playing hide and seek with Baby Peach. Consequently, this resulted in Baby Daisy losing her rattle. Despite Lakitu's attempt to pacify her, Baby Daisy continues to violently bawl. Lakitu informs Yoshi that the only way for her to calm down is to find her rattle and return it to her.
If Yoshi returns without her rattle, a separate conversation can be seen hinting where the rattle is and that Lakitu cannot further translate her speaking. After Wario uses his magnet to retrieve the rattle, a delighted Baby Daisy explains that her rattle is her bat.
Upon the completion of the entire criteria in relation to Baby Daisy's scenario, she is able to join Princess Peach's team, the Peach Monarchs. Baby Daisy will also be available for the other modes at that point. Her stats are the same as Blooper's, having decent pitching and running with average fielding and weak batting.

Baby Daisy is one of the playable, downloadable characters in Dr. Mario World (referred to as Dr. Baby Daisy), and was released on September 5, 2019 alongside Dr. Baby Mario, Dr. Baby Luigi, and Dr. Baby Peach. Her skill in both stage and versus modes changes the next capsules into matching color capsules, and it is represented by her spinning her board while the next capsule is being drawn over by a pencil to create an image of a daisy. If a rainbow capsule is one of the next capsules, it is changed into a full-sized rainbow capsule. The color of the next capsules are based on the color of the left half when it first appeared, meaning that rotating it will not affect the color change. In stage mode, four capsules are changed into matching color capsules, and in versus mode four capsules (two at level 1) are changed into matching color capsules in which the skill charges faster at higher levels. Since version 2.3.0, this skill changes the first capsule into a full-sized rainbow capsule, although the rest of the effect remains the same. 

Like her adult counterpart, Baby Daisy has pale skin, blue eyes with two eyelashes, and orange hair styled after Daisy's, albeit much shorter. She wears a crown similar to Daisy's, but much larger (as she is smaller), a yellow baby dress with two overlapping orange frills, light yellow baby bottoms, white tights, and a pair of deep orange dress shoes. Like Baby Peach and Baby Rosalina, she has rosy cheeks and a round yellow pacifier.
In Dr. Mario World, Baby Daisy's outfit has the same color scheme as her counterpart Dr. Daisy, with a white dress, yellow bottoms and a pale yellow lab coat. She retains her brooch and crown, while Dr. Daisy lacks them both.

Akin to her adult self, Baby Daisy is presented to be full of joy and spirit; only to a higher degree. Being an energetic and bubbly character, she is usually smiling and in a dancing movement. While she is fully capable of speech, Baby Daisy does not talk often, a trait shared by the other babies. In Mario Super Sluggers, all of the babies (including her) can be understood by Lakitu, but are otherwise seen as speaking incoherently in a baby talk of some kind. When Baby Daisy gets upset, she tends to whine and due to this, she is harder to understand than usual. Eager to participate in a competition, Baby Daisy is displayed to be a joyous competitor who likes the excitement of a challenge. Her future self is considered to be a tomboyish individual and she sports a spunky attitude as well.

A large golden statue of Baby Luigi and Baby Daisy dancing together, similar to their adult counterparts, appears in the Daisy Circuit course of Mario Kart Wii. They share good chemistry in Mario Super Sluggers, but the Mario Kart Wii official player's guide stats that Baby Luigi was frightened of her when they used to ride together due to her energetic nature. Baby Daisy has also been linked with Baby Peach by these two appearances, appearing with her in the final congratulations screen in Mario Kart Wii and playing hide-and-seek with her in Challenge Mode of Mario Super Sluggers. Though no interactions are shown, Baby Daisy has good chemistry with Baby Mario, Baby DK, and Yoshi in Super Mario Sluggers.