Badges appear in the Super Mario franchise as items in the Paper Mario series and Mario & Luigi series. They are equipped onto the player and they have a variety of uses depending on the game. They may increase stats, provide unusual abilities, or give characters access to new moves.

Each badge requires a certain amount of BP to be equipped, which means that Mario cannot equip all the badges at the same time. The more useful a badge, the more BP it requires. Instead of changing Mario's stats, badges have many uses, from prolonging Mario's Spin Dash to changing the sound effects of Mario's hammer and jump attacks. Some badges also allow Mario to use special attacks with the hammer and boots that use FP.

In Paper Mario, Badges (as capitalized only in this game) can be found scattered in all the Mushroom Kingdom, but some particular Badges can be only bought from Rowf in Toad Town and from Merlow in exchange for Star Pieces. In the prologue, Goompa gives Mario the Power Jump Badge and teaches him how to use Badges. Later in the game, Merluvlee in the Shooting Star Summit can predict the locations of Badges. There are 80 Badges in total, and aside from the pause menu, Mario can also read from the board in his house to see how many Badges he has collected.

In Paper Mario: The Thousand-Year Door, as well as being scattered over the world, badges can also be dropped by enemies, bought from the Lovely Howz of Badges and Charlieton in Rogueport with coins, from Pianta Parlor in Rogueport with pianta tokens, and exchanged from Dazzle in Rogueport Underground with Star Pieces. Ms. Mowz can steal badges from enemies and enemies also occasionally drop badges when defeated. In this game, some badges have a "P" at the end of their names, they are identical to their non-"P" counterparts but affect Mario's partner instead.
Equipping multiple copies of an attack badge now doubles the FP cost of the move for each extra badge equipped, but increases the move's attack power and/or the duration of its status effect by 1. Similarly, equipping multiple copies of Charge or Charge P will double the cost of charging, but make it provide 1 more Attack. Equipping both available copies of Double Dip or Double Dip P will allow the use of Triple Dip — unlike other badges, doing this will still allow the normal version of Double Dip to be used.
There are 85 kinds of badges in total, 87 in the remake. Interestingly, enemies cannot drop Badges until after Professor Frankly has given Mario the Power Smash Badge. The player can hold only a maximum of 200 badges. If the player somehow maxes out the badges in inventory during Elusive badge!, Ms. Mowz leaves the Attack FX B badge in front of Lovely Howz of Badges.

Super Paper Mario eliminates the use of badges, as there is no RPG-style battling system. There are, however, two items that were badges in the past games: Power Plus and HP Plus. They retain their main purposes: Power Plus boosts the character's attack power by 1, and HP Plus boosts the character's maximum Heart Points by 5. Unlike the badges seen in the first two Paper Mario games, the effects of these items in Super Paper Mario are permanent. The player can also buy them both from the Flipside Arcade, but both are extremely expensive, costing 2,500 Flipside Tokens each. Badges also get a reference in Ms. Mowz's Catch Card description.

In Mario & Luigi: Superstar Saga and Mario & Luigi: Superstar Saga + Bowser's Minions, each bro can only wear one badge at a time. Badges are used to raise Mario or Luigi's stats (like their Bros. Point or Power stat). Certain badges also allow different effects to be used in battle, such as defense from spiked enemies like Sharpeas and Pestnuts, HP recovery, and attacks with different effects, among others. In the original game, the first badge Mario and Luigi obtain is the Bean Badge (the Bwaha Badge is received before the Bean Badge in the remake, which is dropped by Dragohoho) from a Pea before they head off to Chucklehuck Woods. More badges can be bought in shops all around the Beanbean Kingdom, dropped from defeated enemies/bosses, or gained from NPCs, mainly after completing certain sidequests (ex. finding all Beanstones for an old Beanish in Beanbean Castle Town in exchange for a Bros. Rock).

In Mario & Luigi: Partners in Time, Badges only give special effects to Mario, Luigi, Baby Mario, and Baby Luigi. Clothing instead affects all the stats in this game. Badges can be found all around the Mushroom Kingdom of the past, dropped by enemies/bosses, or bought in the present Peach's Castle's Shroom Shop, Gritzy Caves' Monty Mart, Toad Town's Gramma's Place and Peach's Castle Dungeon's Fawful's Bean 'n' Badge (for beans). Like the game's predecessor, only one badge can be given to each bro at a time.

Items known as "Bros. Badges" appear in Mario & Luigi: Bowser's Inside Story, in which they are used in battle by only Mario and Luigi. The first two badges are given to the player by Princess Lipid in the Flab Zone. When a gauge fills up, touching the two linked badges with the stylus activates the badge, yielding a variety of results, such as restoring health. The gauge is filled up by performing an attack in either a "GOOD", "GREAT" or "EXCELLENT" way (the requirements vary from badge to badge), though switching a badge to a different one resets the gauge to zero. Some badges can be purchased at a shop in Toad Town and others can be found throughout the game. Luigi's badge (the left side of the gauge) determines how good the action command must be to fill the bar, and how big the effect is. Mario's badge (the right side of the gauge) decides what the effect is.
In the game's remake, Mario & Luigi: Bowser's Inside Story + Bowser Jr.'s Journey, the Badges return and are received at the same place as the original game and function how they did in Mario & Luigi: Dream Team, except the badge meter does not fill up if there are two badge effects stored.

Badges reappear in Mario & Luigi: Dream Team, and are received much earlier than the previous installment. The first two badges, the Starter and Mush Badge, are both found in the depths of Pi'illo Castle, where the petrified Prince Dreambert is also found.  Mario can equip one badge out of a set of six and Luigi can equip one badge out of the a different set of six. In total, there are 36 combinations, each with a different effect. 
The remaining 10 badges are purchased from specific shops in the game. All badge shops carry the same inventory, though certain events prompt the appearance of new Badges.
During battle, a Badge Meter on the bottom screen fills up as the Mario Bros. attack successfully. In the Real World, the badges are filled up the same way as in Mario & Luigi: Bowser's Inside Story. In the Dream World, regular attacks fill up Mario's side, and Luiginary Attacks fill up Luigi's side. When the two badges meet at any point on the meter, the meter resets and their corresponding badge effect is stored in a space of the touch screen. This space is called the "effect stock". By default, there are two spots available. This can be increased to three spots if the Badge Stock +1 Rank-Up Bonus is selected for one of the bros, and can be increased to four spots if both characters have that bonus. Touching the badge effect displays what it does, and a second tap triggers the effect. (Badge effects are "consumed" after being used.) If a badge effect is earned while the effect stock is full, the leftmost badge effect in the effect stock is removed. All effects are moved a space backward, and the new effect takes the rightmost space.
The side of the Badge Meter corresponding to a Bro. who falls in battle will fully deplete, akin to getting a Great! or worse when Luigi equips his Excellent!! badge in Mario & Luigi: Bowser's Inside Story.
In the chart below, Mario's badges are listed across and Luigi's are listed downwards.

1 - The in-game description is incorrect — it actually randomly copies an effect from the badge stock.
2 - The in-game description is incorrect — the user's status is actually reset to how it was at the start of the battle.

Badges are introduced in the mainline Super Mario titles in Super Mario Bros. Wonder. While Prince Florian equips one on his head, he grants players additional skills that can assist them in the level. Players can obtain badges from completing Badge Challenges or purchasing them in Poplin Shops. Badges are divided into three categories: orange Action Badges let players take a special action such as gliding with their caps; blue Boost Badges are passive abilities that grant benefits such as attracting nearby coins; and yellow Expert Badges include advanced skills with trade-offs intended for experienced players.