Bamboozle Village (known as Bamboo Village in the British English version) is a secret level in Quiver Cliffs in Wario Land: Shake It! It is unlocked after finding a Secret Map in Slipshod Slopes, and it also has a Secret Map to Freezing Fields.

This level is another East Asian-themed one like Mount Bighill. However, the bamboo stalks are purple and both the sky and the river are colored red. The mountain formations in the background are also colored purple. Inside the bamboos, countless enemies of various types inhabit here, along with great amounts of coins. At first, Wario enters the village where Peek-a-booms, Pitchforks, Nosedozers and Shortfuses stand on each floor. Afterwards, Wario enters a place with several wooden posts whose spikes block Wario's way. Wario needs to walk frequently between this and the next section to dash down the posts and pave way for the treasure above. In the following section, Wario jumps on a long spring and reach the platforms above, where a Peek-a-boom turns up and throws him bombs. Wario should use the bombs to destroy the metallic block and clear his way. After that, he encounters long wooden posts attached with spikes. Wario can make them vertical, jump on them and reach the diamond above. Next, Wario should jump on several short springs with great care since spikes are right above his head. When he falls down gently, he can collect more coins and seize the golden enemy, which is a Bandinero. If he pounds down, he will lose them all. Once Wario finds the caged Merfle, he will have to use the Max Fastosity Dasherator to jump on springs and dash back to the start of the level before time runs out.

This level has a Secret Map to Freezing Fields. Wario needs to reach the section where he jumps on several short springs with spikes on them. At the third short spring, the player should simply press jump button rather than pound down to help Wario jump to the left without getting hurt. There is a small coin bag behind the stone block. Standing beside the coin bag and performing an Earthshake Punch reveals the map.