Bananas in the Super Mario franchise are tropical fruit with a variety of purposes, and Banana Peels are used as hazards, most notably in the Mario Kart series.

Bananas do not appear in Donkey Kong Jr., but a Banana Bunch is among the fruit which Donkey Kong Jr. can drop on enemies in the first stage.

Bananas in the Club Nintendo comic "Super Mario Klemp-Won-Do: Muskeln sind nicht alles!" are used by Mario to make his opponent Blanka slip and fall.
Bananas in "Donkey Kong in: Banana Day 24," being the Kongs' favorite food, are the main victuals when Donkey Kong and his friends travel to Outer Space in order to stop aliens from pulling Earth away from the sun. As it turns out, the culprits just erroneously took the planet for a huge coconut, a fruit their species adores. Diddy suggests to give bananas to the extraterrestrials as a compensation to get Earth back. This plan works, and the aliens are enthusiastic about the bananas' taste.
Their use as weapons in the Mario Kart series was referenced in the comic "Die Jagd nach dem Nintendo 64: Krawall im All," when Mario and Luigi dropped some Banana Peels in front of Wario and Bowser, as they were competing to find a Nintendo 64-like spaceship.

The Banana (also known as the Banana Peel or Banana Skin) in the Mario Kart series is one of the most common items, appearing in every installment. A Banana causes a kart to spin out if the vehicle touches the slippery item, slowing them down. Bananas in the Mario Kart series can either be placed behind a kart, or be thrown forward down the track. It can also be held behind the kart as a defensive countermeasure against homing Red Shells and, to a lesser extent, Green Shells. The Mario Kart series also has a type of item featuring three Bananas, Triple Bananas, and when used, they automatically attach themselves to the back of the kart. Like many other items in the Super Mario franchise, the Banana has eyes and a mouth. The Banana also appears as the emblem of the Banana Cup.

Banana Peels in Super Mario Kart are items thrown by Donkey Kong Jr. if he is CPU-controlled.

Bananas in Mario Kart 64 appear as items, this time alongside Banana Bunches, which grant five normal Bananas. In this game, if a Banana is hit while a racer is driving straight, they will skid for a while before spinning out. However, the Banana's effect can be nullified by braking at the right time. The game also introduces the Fake Item Box, which acts similarly to Bananas, but it cannot be tossed forward and can float in midair, and in later games (prior to its removal in Mario Kart 7), items can phase through it.

Bananas in Mario Kart: Super Circuit appear as items, only in the single variation, and like in Mario Kart 64, their effect can be nullified by braking after hitting the Banana.

Bananas in Mario Kart: Double Dash!! are usable items alongside the Giant Banana, a larger variant usable by  Donkey Kong and Diddy Kong only, as well as Petey Piranha and King Boo, since the they can use any special item.

Bananas in Mario Kart DS are usable items alongside Triple Bananas, which function like the previous Banana Bunch, except it provides only three Bananas that line up behind the kart.

Bananas in Mario Kart Wii are among the usable items, and are obtainable in the top five positions; the best chance of getting this item is in 1st place, with a 37.5 percent (15 out of 40) chance of getting it in said position. Triple Bananas also return from Mario Kart DS.

Bananas in Mario Kart 7 have been functionally improved from previous appearances so that when a Banana is struck, the racer spins out for slightly longer.

Bananas in Mario Kart 8 and its Nintendo Switch port have had further improvements so that spinning out from touching one is further increased to a duration comparable to that of the Giant Banana in Mario Kart: Double Dash!! and even the POW Block in Mario Kart Wii. A single Banana appears on the adverts for BaNaNa Boy. Bananas in Mario Kart 8 Deluxe can sometimes be the transformation of the ninja Shy Guy obstacles in Ninja Hideaway.

Bananas in Mario Kart Tour reappear with the Giant Banana, maintaining their general purpose throughout the Mario Kart series. However, unlike in previous games, the Giant Banana is exclusive to Donkey Kong, Yellow Toad (Pit Crew), Morton, and Mario (Sunshine). Diddy Kong and Funky Kong's new exclusive item, the Banana Barrels, shoot out Bananas in front of them for a certain amount of time. Triple Bananas also return as an exclusive item for Daisy (Swimwear), Dixie Kong, Donkey Kong Jr. (SNES), and Waluigi (Bus Driver).
The following gliders increase the chance of getting Bananas and points for hitting racers with one.

Bananas in the Donkey Kong Country series and Donkey Kong Land series are the main collectible items in the same manner as Coins in the Super Mario series, since for every one hundred bananas collected, the player receives an extra life. Banana Bunches in both series are worth ten regular bananas, and are also very common.
Bananas and Banana Bunches in Donkey Kong Country commonly appear within Bonus Areas to the extent of having a type centered around them, "Collect the Bananas!". Donkey Kong can sometimes reveal a Banana Bunch by using Hand Slap in a specific location. Hoards of bananas in the boss arenas fill the background.
Bananas in Donkey Kong Country 2: Diddy's Kong Quest are not only items, but also visual aids. Bananas that point at a wall indicates that it can be broken, and this always leads into a Bonus Area. One banana can also give away the location of either a hidden object (such as a Barrel Cannon or a hook), a hidden item (such as an Extra Life Balloon), or even a Bonus Barrel. Bananas in Donkey Kong Country 2: Diddy's Kong Quest and its sequel, Donkey Kong Country 3: Dixie Kong's Double Trouble!, are sometimes arranged in the shape of a controller button, indicating which button must be pressed during that moment; for example, in Bobbing Barrel Brawl of the latter game, a group of bananas shaped as a "Y" tell the player to press  for Ellie to draw over a TNT Barrel stuck between two red Buzzes. In the Game Boy Advance port, the arrangement of these bananas were updated to match with the appropriate Game Boy Advance button.
Bananas in Donkey Kong Country Returns and its Nintendo 3DS port retain are very similar to their earlier appearances, but there are now winged bananas that float around in certain areas (mostly Bonus Areas), which are worth five bananas. Enormous, floating bananas (amongst other fruit) appear in the Golden Temple as platforms for Donkey and Diddy Kong.
Bananas in Donkey Kong Country: Tropical Freeze and its Nintendo Switch port, have another gameplay mechanic linked to them, where by collecting a hundred bananas, the Kongs can perform a Kong POW, aside from receiving an extra life. Regular bananas in the game also follow behind flying bananas, and collecting all of these bananas spawns another item, such as a Banana Coin or even a Puzzle Piece.

Bananas in Diddy Kong Racing only (not the Nintendo DS remake, which replaces them with coins) are collectible items that influence a vehicle's top speed, but the player can have only up to ten at a time. Two bananas are dropped by the player if they hit an obstacle. Bananas in Smokey Castle are stored within four collectible treasure chests. The banana counter resets to zero at the beginning of each race.

Bananas in Yoshi's Story are the favorite fruit of Yellow Yoshis, excluding Melons, which are loved by all Yoshis. Bananas on the Super Happy Tree are seen growing from the top.

Bananas in Donkey Kong 64 are collectible items appearing in one of five colors, each only collectible by a certain Kong: yellow for Donkey Kong, red for Diddy Kong, purple for Tiny Kong, blue for Lanky Kong, and green for Chunky Kong. There are exactly 500 bananas (100 per color) in each of the game's seven levels, for a total of 3,500 bananas in the entire game. Bananas in Troff 'n' Scoff have more relevance to gameplay than in other areas, since the Kongs need to feed them to Scoff, who grows larger from eating bananas until eventually becoming large enough to stomp his platform, allowing Troff to reach the key and unlock the boss door.
Unlike the Donkey Kong Country trilogy, Banana Bunches are worth five bananas. A Banana Balloon is worth ten bananas, which the Kong can obtain by sniping their associated Banana Balloon.
Banana peels in Donkey Kong 64 play a role during the final battle against K. Rool, during Lanky Kong's segment. Since K. Rool is blinded from a light fixture stuck on him, Lanky uses barrels containing giant banana peels to place on the ring, and then play music to K. Rool to lure him over to the banana peel so he will slip on it by accident.

Bananas Peels appear twice in the Luigi's Mansion series. In Luigi's Mansion, Garbage Can Ghosts will throw banana peels on the floor. Luigi can slip on these peels, damaging him with 5 HP taken away, or 10 HP in the Hidden Mansion. They can also be found lying on the ground in the Dining Room, where Mr. Luggs resides. In Luigi's Mansion 3, Banana Peels can come out of trash bins. If Luigi or Gooigi walks on a banana peel, they slip and lose 1 HP.

Bananas in the Super Smash Bros. series can sometimes be amongst the food in the item of the same name. Bananas in Super Smash Bros. Melee subtract 5% damage, and Bananas in Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS and Super Smash Bros. Ultimate specifically appear in the Tortimer Island stage, where they subtract 3% damage.
Banana Peels in the Super Smash Bros. series appear as items in Super Smash Bros. Brawl and subsequent installments, and when thrown, anyone who walks over the peel will trip over onto their back. It is also used in Diddy Kong's down special move. In Super Smash Bros. Ultimate, an offensive item known as a Banana Gun that produces a Banana Peel after being used also appears.

Bananas in Super Mario Sunshine are among the different interactive fruit objects appearing throughout Isle Delfino. Bananas fall faster and have more friction than other fruits, and Yoshis that eat a Banana turn pink, allowing them to spit Juice of the same color. Bananas in Delfino Plaza are sold in the market sector by a street vendor, but Mario can take them for free. Bananas piqued the interest of a local Pianta to the point where she asks Mario to help gather some for her. A supply of bananas and other fruit in Ricco Harbor are stored in a gigantic tank used in the episode Yoshi's Fruit Adventure. Bananas in Sirena Beach are sold at the fruit bars in Hotel Delfino, but Mario is free to use them.

A peeled banana in Super Mario Maker appears in the Diddy Kong costume's pose when  is pressed (or when the left  is tilted up).

Bananas in the Mario Party series have appeared in various minigames, such as in Tree Stomp in Mario Party 4, acting as hazards (along with golden variants that increase the speed of any player that collects them). Players tripping over banana peels also determine which path is taken in Koopa's Seaside Soiree in Mario Party 4. Bananas are prominently featured in Donkey Kong minigames in Mario Party 5, 6, and 7, where they are worth one, two, or three coins depending on a random multiplier determined by whoever has landed on a DK Space before the minigame starts. In these games, there are also Banana Bunches, which are worth five bananas each and also mainly found in Donkey Kong minigames. Bananas appear in Mario Party: Star Rush as obstacles in Bowser's Shocking Slipup, where they appear as one of only two items on the roulettes. They stun the player for a few seconds if touched. In Super Mario Party, Bananas appear in the minigame Trip Navigator as the main obstacles. If a player touches one, they are stunned for one second.
Outside of minigames, Bananas directly replace Mini Stars in DK's Jungle Ruins in Mario Party 9, so the goal is to have the most bananas by the end. Z-Bananas similarly appear as a counterpart to Mini Ztars.
In Super Mario Party Jamboree, Bananas appear as an item that can be used in the Bowser Kaboom Squad mode.

Bananas in Mario Power Tennis tend to appear in the Item Battle mode, where players can hit the balls through Item Boxes, and are referred to as "Slippery Danger." The player has to hit the ball with the racquet in order to use the item. When used, the banana will be attached with the ball until it stays still on the ground in the case the ball bounces. Also, the Garbage Can Ghost in the Luigi's Mansion stage throws bananas that have the same function as the regular bananas as a stage gimmick.

Bananas in Mario Tennis Open can be seen on the DK Jungle court, in the emblem for the Banana Cup, on the trophy for the cup, and in tennis gear for Miis designed after Bananas.

Bananas and Banana Bunches in Donkey Kong Jungle Beat are part of a scoring system called beats (or banana points in the New Play Control! version). In this game, Donkey Kong's banana total acts as his overall health (in the New Play Control! version, they only act as his health for boss battles); losing all of his beats results in a Game Over. Normal bananas are worth one beat, and bunches are worth three, but stringing together multiple combos and clap grabbing multiple bananas increases the amount of beats they are worth. Lastly, there is a minigame after said levels involving Donkey Kong eating as many bananas as he can in the allotted period of time, to increase his beat total for that level.

Bananas in DK: King of Swing are items that can be collected in quantities up to 300, and are used for restoring health or even becoming temporarily invincible.

Bananas in the WarioWare series appear in a few microgames. Bananas in WarioWare: D.I.Y. Showcase are items in the DK Country microgame that have to be collected by Diddy while avoiding a Zinger. Bananas in WarioWare Gold appear in two microgames: Super Mario Kart, as obstacles to avoid on Rainbow Road, and Donkey Kong Country, where Donkey Kong must fire into a row of bananas from a Barrel Cannon.
A Banana Peel in WarioWare: Get It Together! briefly appears in Shadow Sports, specifically the Banana Peel from the Mario Kart series.

Bananas in Mario Golf: World Tour appear in food bowls on some tables of the Castle Club's Royal Room, inside of barrels, which are the tee markers of the DK Jungle course, and there is golf gear designed after the item that Miis can use. A banana is used in Diddy Kong's animation for getting a bogey, where he eats one while lying down and throws it on the ground, and from getting double bogey or worse, except when he tries to get up and walk, Diddy slips on the banana.

Bananas in Mario Golf: Super Rush appear as obstacles in the Battle Golf mode inside clear spheres, where if a character steps on one, they lose coins. There are also multiple bananas inside the spheres which surround the player with bananas.

Bananas in the Mario Strikers games function as items that players can obtain, and once used, the player will drop three or five banana peels behind them, which will proceed to knock over any player who runs into them. This includes both the opponent, and the user. If used near an edge, only a few bananas will stay on the field, as the other bananas will fall off the stadium. A similar item is the Giant Banana.
During Diddy Kong's ground entrance, he pulls out a banana, and whacks it on his hand, which is used to say that he is going to crush his opponent.

Bananas in Mario & Luigi: Bowser's Inside Story and its remake are used by Crawfuls in an attack where it throws a banana in front of it and slips towards the character currently being used, who must punch it away or hammer it respectively.

Banana Peels in Mario Sports Mix are items that can either stop opponents for a short time, or power up the ball or puck. When used as an item shot, the ball will make a curved path, a reference to the face that bananas themselves are curved, and can cause opposing players to slip if they touch it. Banana Peels in Western Junction are filled in cars linked to a train where Shy Guys throw Banana Peels on the court, putting players at risk of slipping on them.

Bananas in Nintendo Land have to be collected in the Donkey Kong's Crash Course attraction while attempting to reach Donkey Kong and Pauline.

Bananas in Mario & Sonic at the Sochi 2014 Olympic Winter Games appear on the Market Street Rink in Snow Day Street Hockey. When the puck hits a banana seller's stand, banana peels will temporarily scatter over the rink and cause whoever hits them to slip and be stunned. The banana peels use their design from Mario Kart: Double Dash!!.

Bananas in Mario + Rabbids Kingdom Battle are the currency in the Donkey Kong Adventure mode, replacing coins from the main game.

Bananas in Mario Sports Superstars are part of Diddy's bogey and double bogey animations in Golf mode, both reused from Mario Golf: World Tour directly.

A bunch of Bananas can be seen beside Cranky Kong's throne in The Super Mario Bros. Movie, from which Cranky picks up a banana as Mario is punched repeatedly by Donkey Kong in the stadium duel. Additionally, Bananas can be seen hanging on a fruit cart along with pineapples and watermelons while Toad is escorting Mario through the Mushroom Kingdom. Similar to Diddy Kong Racing, Bananas are used to fuel the karts of the Jungle Kingdom.