The Barrel Train is a kart in the Mario Kart series. It is a traction engine with elements of a railroad locomotive and a barrel, and it resembles the train from Kalimari Desert as well as the K64 from Paper Mario. Its horn makes the sound of a train whistle. Like any steam engine, the Barrel Train's exhaust pipe is a smokestack.

The Barrel Train first appears in Mario Kart: Double Dash!! as a lightweight kart serving as the signature kart of Diddy Kong (although the Prima Official Strategy Guide claims it does not have any associated character). It can be unlocked by winning the Star Cup on 150cc. The Barrel Train is the heaviest lightweight kart in the game; its weight is tied with the middleweight Red Fire and Heart Coach karts. It is also the only lightweight kart that can push around the middleweight Green Fire and Bloom Coach karts. According to the game stats, it is tied with the Bullet Blaster as the fastest lightweight kart. However, it also has the weakest acceleration of its weight class.
Although the game shows a four-star speed stat, the Barrel Train's top speed is tied with that of the Bullet Blaster, DK Jumbo, and Piranha Pipes, and its small size enables it to avoid most hazards more easily. It also has the weakest traction of all karts, as it still maintains its speed briefly after getting hit by the Lightning item. However, while it has a two-star acceleration stat, the Barrel Train accelerates equally to the Green Fire and Wario Car. Finally, the Barrel Train is one of the two four-star speed karts to lose the least amount of speed upon going off-road, with the other being the Piranha Pipes.
The Barrel Train is one of the only four karts to have a unique engine sound, the other three being the DK Jumbo, Koopa King, and Parade Kart.
The train whistle made by the Barrel Train's horn is identical to the train from Animal Crossing.

The Barrel Train is an unlockable kart body in Mario Kart 7. It lacks the green platform, and only contains four wheels of the player's choice, thus eliminating the second racer's place, and making the kart only for one racer. Equipping the Barrel Train with Slim tires makes it resemble the original version, despite the missing platform. Similarly to the Tiny Tug, the Barrel Train has a low-revving diesel engine, and its sound is derived from an actual steam train. The star decals on the front and the sides are also removed, filled in by the selected character's emblem. The Barrel Train offers a small speed and weight boost, while hindering handling. In fact, it is tied with the Bumble V and Bruiser for having the lowest handling of all kart bodies. In terms of its hidden stats, the Barrel Train offers one of the highest mini-turbo boosts (tied with the Bumble V and Koopa Clown), but it also has the lowest sea speed of all kart bodies.

The Barrel Train returns in Mario Kart Tour, classified as a Super kart. It uses its design from Mario Kart 7, making it the only kart originating in Mario Kart: Double Dash!! to not retain the item user's handlebar. The star decals return on the sides of the kart. It uses the Off-Road tires from Mario Kart 8 and Mario Kart 8 Deluxe, slightly resembling its original tires (although a pre-release screenshot shows it with the Pipe Frame's tires instead). The Barrel Train increases the duration of Rocket Start boosts and the amount of points earned upon performing a Rocket Start.
The 2019 Paris Tour introduced a gold variant of the vehicle, named the Gold Train, which is classified as a High-End kart.

Various items of the Barrel Train have appeared throughout the Super Smash Bros. series. In Super Smash Bros. Brawl, there is a sticker of the Barrel Train that can be equipped to any fighter in The Subspace Emissary to increase their leg attack power by 19 points. In Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS, there is a trophy of Donkey Kong in the Mario Kart 7 incarnation of the Barrel Train. In Super Smash Bros. Ultimate, there is an Advanced-class support spirit of a Barrel Train that takes up one support slot, and using it on a fighter boosts the power of their dash attacks. In World of Light, the spirit appears in the badlands region on the east side of The Light Realm, and the spirit's puppet fighters are Donkey Kong and Diddy Kong, fought on the Spirit Train stage.