The Battle Space is a special space that first appears in Mario Party 2.
In Mario Party 2 and Mario Party 3, when a player lands on this space, Goomba comes by, gets a certain amount of coins from each player (the amount is chosen randomly in Mario Party 2 and is chosen by roulette in the rest of the series) and a Battle minigame begins. Players attempt to battle each other to get the jackpot that the Goomba took. 

If the total jackpot is not a multiple of 10, all coins but one will be distributed in this manner, and the remaining coin goes to a random player. In Mario Party 4, Goomba becomes the host of his own board, and his role as Battle minigame host is filled by Bob-omb.
A Battle minigame will not take place if a player lands on this space and there are fewer than 20 coins in play total. In Mario Party 3, the following message from Goomba appears if this happens: "Hey! Where are all the coins? No one has even 10 coins! In that case, there'll be no Battle Game! C'mon everyone, get busy!"
If all players lose the Battle Minigame, the coins return to their original owners.
In Mario Party 5, Mario Party 6, Mario Party 7, Mario Party 8, and Mario Party DS, Battle Spaces are dropped from gameplay. In these games, Battle minigames periodically appear in lieu of the usual end-of-turn minigame (only 4-player mini-games in Mario Party 5, 6, and 7), although it happens entirely by chance (except in Mario Party 8, where it occurs once every 10 turns). Due to their occasional replacement of end-of-turn minigames, earnings from these minigames now are counted towards one's minigame coin total, making them a large influence in the awarding of the Mini-Game Star.
In Mario Party 6, these spaces are changed entirely, having a violet B on them (a lightning bolt in the European and Australian versions), and are only found in Solo Mode. Landing on one of these makes the player play a Battle minigame against the Koopa Kids.
Battle Spaces return in Mario Party 9, only in a three- or four-player game. Hammer Bro and Fire Bro now co-host the Battle minigames, and one will appear whenever a Battle Space is landed on, with Hammer Bro appearing more frequently. Hammer Bro will take three Mini Stars from each player before starting the minigame, which are wagered, while Fire Bro will instead take a total of ten from whoever places last, and split them between the winners, working the same way as in the original Mario Party, wherein the loser(s) must give the winner(s) coins after playing a specific minigame. Either Bro will provide extra Mini Stars if at least one player does not have enough Mini Stars, even if players have no Mini Stars at all. The captain will then pick the Free-for-All minigame that gets played, unless the group has already passed the green Toad, in which case the player in last gets to pick. If everybody ends up in first place or last place, the Fire Bro will not give or take any Mini Stars away from any players.After the minigame, the following distributions of Mini Stars occur on the results screen, depending on which Bro appeared beforehand: