The Beanbean Kingdom is a major kingdom that shares its northeastern border with the Mushroom Kingdom. It is the main setting of the game Mario & Luigi: Superstar Saga and its remake, which is also its only appearance. The kingdom includes dry mountains, valleys, a forest, and a beach.

The Beanbean Kingdom is a monarchy ruled by Queen Bean. Queen Bean is assisted by her son, Prince Peasley, and her lady at court, Lady Lima.

The kingdom is served by Beanbean troops, who form various blockades throughout the game. They are first seen at the entrance to Hoohoo Mountain. The soldiers wear metal helmets and bear a sword and shield. A smiling Beanish is prominently featured on their white and red uniform, over their chain-link armor, and on their shield.

Stardust Fields lies at the border between the Mushroom Kingdom and the Beanbean Kingdom. Getting through the border that separates the Mushroom and Beanbean sides of Stardust Fields requires a Border Jump with the Border Bros. The population of Stardust Fields is rather small, made up of only 5 people who can talk. The Starshade Bros.' headquarters are under the fields, which are always covered by a starry night sky. 
Tolstar is apparently the king of this region.

Hoohoo Mountain is a large mountain on the northwest side of the Beanbean Kingdom. Long ago, the Hoohoo civilization used to be located here, and their jokes can still be seen in the sides of the mountain, written in Hooroglyphs. Hoohoo Mountain has various waterfalls, and the water of these descend from the water-filled crater at the mountain's summit. On the summit, there is a nest-like structure where the rare Hoohoo blocks are found. To climb the mountain, Mario and Luigi would have to climb it manually, or have Blablanadon fly them up to the top. At the bottom of the mountain is Hoohoo Village, where the Hoohooligans live. The Hammerhead Bros., who used a Hoohoo block to build the Mario Bros. their hammers, used to live here as well, but moved to northeast in Beanbean Fields.

Beanbean Castle Town and Beanbean Castle lie at the center of the Beanbean Kingdom's largest region, Beanbean Fields (originally known as Beanbean Outskirts). North of it are Hoohoo Mountain and Teehee Valley. South of it lie are Beanbean International Airport and Woohoo Hooniversity, To the west is Chucklehuck Woods, and to the east is Oho Ocean. Beanbean Fields are a vast, grassy, slightly hilly plain, and connect many of the various landmarks in the Beanbean Kingdom. Many enemies are seen in this area, including Parabeanies and Sharpeas, among others.
Beanbean Fields also seems to include various rivers, although they are likely to be canals built by the kingdom's people.

The capital city of the Beanbean Kingdom, Beanbean Castle Town is also where Beanbean Castle is located, which is where the kingdom's monarch, Queen Bean, as well as her son, Prince Peasley, and other people such as Lady Lima live. The Beanstar is kept guarded in the castle, and during the events of Mario & Luigi: Superstar Saga, Cackletta devises a plan to steal the Beanstar. The castle town is where most of the kingdom's Beanish people live. The town and castle are surrounded by water canals. According to Fava's brother, who is considered by many to be the smartest person in the town, Beanbean Castle Town was once the setting of the great Soybean civilization, and their artifacts, the rare Beanrocks, lie buried below the town.
The town is split in two by the water canals, and is connected by a bridge. Two additional bridges connect the castle town with Beanbean Fields. Beanbean Castle Town is attacked twice during Mario & Luigi: Superstar Saga.

A strange forest located in southwest Beanbean, Chucklehuck Woods is where the mystical Chuckola Fruit is grown. The entrance to the woods is the old Chateau de Chucklehuck, famous for being where Chuckola Cola is brewed. Mario and Luigi are sent here to obtain the cure for Queen Bean's sickness, the legendary Chuckola Reserve.
In the middle of the woods is an ancient structure known as the Mother Chuckalola, which is where the Chuckola Reserve was being brewed for a thousand years by Bubbles, the original owner of Chateau de Chucklehuck, until it matured enough to achieve perfection. Mother Chuckola is protected by Chuckleroot, and elderly tree-like being, who believes only certain people can pass, and those who want to must first acquire the three rare varieties of Chuckloa Fruit.
Popple and Rookie, first met in Chateau de Chucklehuck, later sneak into the forest, and try to steal the Chuckola reserve for themselves. However, they are stopped by Bubbles and the reserve itself, and it later battles Mario and Luigi in a new form known as the Chuckolator.
Winkles also inhabit an area located deeper in the woods.

A university focused on the studies of laughter, Woohoo Hooniversity is located in southeast Beanbean. According to Prince Peasley's investigations, Cackletta and her underlings had snuck into the university and attacked the professors as the students fled, turning the victims into Laser Snifits.
After completing some puzzles, the Mario Bros. activate a solar-powered door that leads to Cackletta's hiding place. It is here that she plans to use the Beanstar and Peach's voice. After her plan fails, and after being defeated by the bros., the Beanstar is later found by Rookie and Popple in the basement. It later flees from the university as Mario, Luigi, Popple, and Rookie hold on to it, and shatters into 4 pieces.
? Block research is undertaken in the university as well.

Oho Oasis is home to the Oho Jee, a species that speaks imperfect English, and come in two varieties, blue and red. Oho Oasis was once visited by outsiders belonging to the Oho Civilization Research Expedition, who named the species, and made the discovery that red Oho Jee who were lit on fire would turn into monsters and attack, also hypothesizing that blue Oho Jee would likely transform when exposed to electricity.
Two temples, home to Firebrand and Thunderhand, are located in the center of the island. It is from Firebrand and Thunderhand that Mario and Luigi learn the Firebrand and Thunderhand techniques.

A desert in north Beanbean and the only way for travelers walking on foot to reach Little Fungitown, Teehee Valley was once part of the seafloor of Oho Ocean. Over time, as the sea shrank, the seafloor became exposed. Teehee Valley contains yellow pipes that take people to underground ruins that are often inhabited by Gritty Goombas.
Mario and Luigi are originally sent to Teehee Valley to escort Peach all the way to Little Fungitown, and are forced to battle Trunkle on their way. Later in the game, the Mario Bros. return to the desert to gather one of the four Beanstar pieces, which had landed on an old ship that once used to ship Chuckola Cola around the world. The ship had sunk, and over time, the ship's crew had turned into living skeletons. After breaking a crack in the ship's wall, the old ship is shot from the valley and into Oho Ocean, only to sink a second time.

Also, Kurako live in this kingdom, but are rare. There are also a few variants of familiar enemy creatures (such as Tanoombas) found here, as well enemies also found in the Mushroom Kingdom (an example of this is the Blooper). Finally, the Hoohoo and Soybean civilizations may be the very oldest known inhabitants of the Beanbean Kingdom.

Like the Mushroom Kingdom uses Mushroom Coins as their money, the Beanbean Kingdom uses Beanbean coins. Although Mushroom Kingdom coins can still be used in the Beanbean Kingdom, they typically are worth much less than Beanbean coins. The exchange rate from Mushroom to Beanbean coins is inconsistent.