Beans are collectible items that have made an appearance in all Mario & Luigi games to date. Their use varies between games, though they are usually used to increase the stats of characters, and are usually found in marked spots underground on the overworld. Additionally, the Beanish are a race of bean-like people that appear in almost every Mario & Luigi game.

In Mario & Luigi: Superstar Saga and Mario & Luigi: Superstar Saga + Bowser's Minions, beans are plentiful in the Beanbean Kingdom, though collecting them is entirely optional. Only 99 beans of each type can be carried at once, and their only use is be taken to the Starbeans Cafe, where they can be blended into stat-boosting Bean Juice for Mario and Luigi. There are four kinds of beans in the game; each one is acquired in a different way, used to make certain Bean Juices, and, like the locations of the Beanbean Kingdom, named after words pertaining to laughter:

In Mario & Luigi: Partners in Time, Beans are dug up by Baby Mario and Baby Luigi when they use the Baby Drill technique or can be won from the minigames in Thwomp Caverns. These can be traded to Fawful in his shop, Fawful's Bean 'n' Badge, for Badges. The Beans in this game bear a resemblance to Hee Beans, although they are never actually given any name other than "Bean".
The first time the player activates the Start menu after getting a Bean, Stuffwell will break in and explain where the player can see the number of Beans collected.

In Mario & Luigi: Bowser's Inside Story, beans are optional and can boost stats. These beans are called Heart Beans (which adds a point to the player's HP), Special Beans (which adds a point to the player's SP), and Power Beans (which add a point to the player's attack power). An Emoglobin in the Energy Hold, a Toad in Toad Town, and Toadsworth in the Toad Square provide information about beans.
The star menu allows the player to see how many beans they have collected as well as the total number of beans in each area. It also allows the player to use beans in the consumable item list where they are categorized by bean type. There are 251 beans in the whole game. Most of them are collected from beanholes – flashing dots underground in Bowser's body (X-shaped symbols in the remake) and X-shaped bean symbols on the ground of the overworld – by using Drill Bros. and jumping out. A small number of them can be collected from characters by doing sidequests: 15 from PR Toad, and 39 from Kuzzle. Crawfuls can eat beans to recover their HP, but if Bowser vacuums its teeth, the Crawful's bean will fly out of the mouth as it attempts to chow down before the bean smashes its head, stunning the creature for four turns.

In the game's remake, Mario & Luigi: Bowser's Inside Story + Bowser Jr.'s Journey, Defense, Speed and Stache Beans (the last of the three being renamed "Flex Beans" likely to accommodate for Bowser's ability to use them) have been added to the game. Multiple beans can be dug up in one drill spot, and some beans are also obtained after defeating the giant bosses. After talking to a certain Toad in Toad Town who gives information about beans, any sections with uncovered drill spots will be marked in the map. Also, the list of dug-up beans can be found in the Records option instead of the Items option in the star menu, although beans obtained from the PR Toad and Kuzzle are no longer counted.

Like in other Mario & Luigi games, beans are a collectible in Mario & Luigi: Dream Team, to the extent they were in Mario & Luigi: Bowser's Inside Story, where they boosted the brothers' stats upon eating them. Beans are marked as Xs in the ground. Mario can dig them out by using Mole Mario and appearing from below the X. Each bean permanently boosts one of the brother's stats by one stat point. Unlike the earlier games, there are Beans for all of the stats rather than just beans for Power, HP and SP (which was changed back to BP as of this game).
Beans are only dug up in the Real World. If the player pauses the game and goes into the Beans section in the Collection Menu, they can find a list of all the areas with beans and how many they've found and how many there are in each area. Beans can also be gained from equipping the Wellington Boots/Farmer Boots, which may turn coins into bean drops. There are a total of 143 beans that can be dug up in the game, with there being 24 of each bean (with the exception of Speed Beans, which there are 23 of) to find.
There are also DX versions of each bean, which increase its respective stat by 3 when used. These can be obtained by completing Kylie Koopa's photo puzzles or defeating Gold Beanies. One Heart Bean DX is also obtained after completing the trading quest in Wakeport.

Beans return in Mario & Luigi: Paper Jam, acting the same way they did in both Mario & Luigi: Bowser's Inside Story and Mario & Luigi: Dream Team. Like in the previous two games, the number of beans collected in each area can be viewed in the menu, this time from the Collection screen. Beans are dug up from X-marked circular spots on the ground and dirt sections of walls, and can be collected with the Trio Drill ability on the overworld. Beans can also be obtained after passing the Know-it-all Toad quizzes. In addition to this, the Wellington Boots return and cause enemies to drop beans when defeated. Finally, countering Petey Piranha's chase attack may give a bean.
DX Beans also return. The Bad Nabbit mission gives the player these beans after each battle with Nabbit, and the Paper Broozers' barrel-throwing attack may sometimes cause one or more of these beans to appear when countered.

Speed Beans appear in Mario & Luigi: Brothership.