Bees appear in the Super Mario franchise as stinging insects, mostly commonly in the form of enemies.

A small variety of Bees appear as obstacles in certain levels, such as Jungle Hut, in Yoshi's Story. They swarm around beehives and will become agitated if the Baby Yoshis approach it too quickly. If the Yoshis attempt to pass the hive while they are agitated, the bees will form a hand that will block them from passing. Throwing an egg at the hive while the hand is formed will result in the bees hitting them. In order to pass the beehive, the Yoshi must slowly walk past it.
Another variety of bee, the Bumblebee, appears in Cloud Cruising. They will fly across the screen and will hurt the Baby Yoshis on contact. They can be defeated by a simple stomp or by being eaten, though they do not give any ♥s or replenish the Smile Meter when eaten.

Bees in the Mario Party series appear on boards and in minigames alike. In Mario Party 2 and Mario Party Superstars, beehives appear in the minigame Honeycomb Havoc, where if a player winds up with one, they are attacked by bees and eliminated from the game. Bees in Mario Party 7 appear in Big Dripper, where players must duck down to avoid the swarm while collecting their dripping honey. Additionally, players pilot bee-like aircraft in the minigame Buzzstormer. Bees in Mario Party DS appear as part of an Event Space in DK's Stone Statue, where they emerge from their hive with coins that the player can collect; additionally, Bees in the minigame Hedge Honcho sting players if touched with a stylus, so the player has to wait for them to buzz off. Bees in Mario Party 10 resemble honeybees and are the main obstacles of the minigame Beeline Shrine.
Bees also appear in Super Mario Party Jamboree on the board Mega Wiggler's Tree Party.

Bees in Super Mario Sunshine are part of various Beehives in Bianco Hills, Gelato Beach, and Pianta Village, and if Mario gets too close to a Beehive or knocks one down, the Bees swarm him, causing damage if he gets stung. A Bee can release a Coin if eaten by Yoshi, though the last Bee of a Beehive always releases either a Blue Coin or a 1-Up Mushroom. If Mario talks to an NPC while bees are chasing him, he will be pushed in random directions mid-conversation and will not take damage.

Bees in Mario & Luigi: Bowser's Inside Story and its remake are encountered as enemies alongside another type of enemy, Beehoss, which can summon Bees from its honeycomb during battle. Bees in the Bowser Jr.'s Journey mode are used as the Beehoss's projectiles. In the remake, they use their design from Mario & Luigi: Dream Team.

Bees in Mario & Luigi: Dream Team are encountered alongside Beehoss once more, and if any bee is counterattacked and defeated on the Beehoss's turn, the remaining bees will return to perform an unavoidable attack on either Mario or Luigi, depending on who counterattacked them.

In Mario & Luigi: Brothership, Luigi is chased by a swarm of bees in a forest not far from Peach's Castle, resulting in him nearly falling off a cliff before Mario saves him, which causes their hands to glow and create a portal that teleports them away.

Bees in the Super Smash Bros. series are part of the Beehive item in Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS, Super Smash Bros. for Wii U, and Super Smash Bros. Ultimate. A swarm of bees are released from the Beehive when thrown at an opponent and attack them, but the bees also target a fighter if they attack their beehive.

Bees in Mario + Rabbids Kingdom Battle and Mario + Rabbids Sparks of Hope are ambient animals.