A Beehoss is a walking honeycomb enemy that appears in the Mario & Luigi series. Its name is derived from "bee house," as seen by the Japanese name.

Beehosses appear as enemies in Mario & Luigi: Bowser's Inside Story. They are encountered on land at Blubble Lake, and can give each other honey to recover their health and the health of allies. Bowser is capable of inhaling up to two of their honeycombs at once, which restores 40 HP each. One Beehoss at Blubble Lake also has a Blitty.
Beehosses can typically unleash bees at Bowser to attack, and Bowser can hide in his shell to avoid them. However, if he goes in too early, the bee will notice and stop until Bowser comes back out. If the bee hits Bowser's shell and gets knocked out of the battle, Bowser can quickly punch the bee towards the Beehoss responsible for unleashing the bee. Mario and Luigi also fight Beehosses when they are able to get out of Bowser's body. They act nearly the same way they do with Bowser, except the bees tilt their stingers to the brother they are going to attack and slowly fly towards them, while Mario and Luigi have to jump over them. In addition getting hit could result in getting the Poison status effect. Beehosses have high HP, so using attacks that involve fire are recommended. They are incredibly powerful, and can do a lot of damage if the Mario Bros. fail to time their attacks.
Beehosses are also enemies in the remake, Mario & Luigi: Bowser's Inside Story + Bowser Jr.'s Journey. They no longer spit honey at Mario and Luigi in the overworld, and they now take critical damage from Bowser's Flame and the Mario Bros.' Fire Flower. Additionally, they are found as enemies in the Bowser Jr.'s Journey mode. Beehosses are ranged troopers, and are weak against fire attacks, such as attacks from Fire Bros. and Fire Stalking Piranha Plants.

Beehosses appear as enemies in Mario & Luigi: Dream Team. They now sport spikes on their head while having three legs instead of two, their eyes are placed on the hive part of the head rather than on the top, and are red and angry. Their head has a darker color, with a slightly different shape. They appear in Somnom Woods. In the field, they unleash a bee upon sighting Mario and Luigi, which chases them, stopping after going a certain distance away from the Beehoss who let it out. If the bee is touched, a battle with the Beehoss who let it out will start. The bee will disappear after a period of time.
In battle, they attack using a default group of nine bees, somewhat similar to their behavior in Mario & Luigi: Bowser's Inside Story. If a Beehoss runs out of bees due to them all being defeated, the Beehoss will run away. As Beehosses, unlike the previous game, count as spiked enemies this time around, they thus can no longer be jumped on. Beehosses are weak to fire and thus take critical damage against Luigi's Fire Flower Bros. Attack.
After being attacked while it has bees in its hive, it will send them out towards the attacker. Sometimes the swarm will come at Mario or Luigi at a higher-upward angle that hits them if they just idle; this can be deduced by looking at the position of the Beehoss's leaf as it releases the bees. If a Beehoss has no bees in its hive due to them not coming back after attacking, it may take a turn to have the bees return to its hive.
A Beehoss may attack by sending out a swarm at Mario or Luigi, which must be jumped over. If any bee is counter-attacked and defeated, the remaining bees will come back and attack the brother who counter-attacked the bee(s), which cannot be avoided. The bees will then head into the background, forming an M or L formation several times. The fewer bees there are remaining, the less obvious the targeted brother is. The bees will fly back down into the midst of battle from the top-right corner, which must be avoided by jumping over them with perfect timing.
Beehosses can also send out two groups of bees at once, one in line with Mario, and one in line with Luigi (though in the case there is only one bee left, only one brother is targeted). The group with more bees in it will attack first, and shortly after, the other one will follow.  If either Mario brother touches a bee, it may cause POW-Down. As with other attacks, jumping on the bees will defeat some of them, and any remaining will retaliate with an unavoidable attack.