Big Fire Piranhas, also known as Big Venus Fire Traps and Big Fire Piranha Plans,[sic] are enemies first appearing in Super Mario 64. They are larger Fire Piranha Plants; their fireballs are often comparatively larger as well.

In Super Mario 64 and its remake, Super Mario 64 DS, Big Fire Piranhas are known as Piranha Flowers and are the target of the first mission of Tiny-Huge Island: Pluck the Piranha Flower. Five of them appear in this mission as a group boss. Like Small Piranhas, they blend in the grass at first. When Mario approaches, they grow in size at an alarming rate, spit a fireball, then quickly shrink back to their invulnerable selves. All of them appear in one area, and they must be attacked to obtain a Power Star. In Super Mario 64 DS, another way to deal with them is by using a mushroom hidden in one of the three wooden stumps in the same area, as a giant character will instantly defeat the enemies upon touch. Once defeated, they shrink like a normal-sized Piranha Plant before leaving the player with two coins (or, if defeated with a mushroom, three coins).

In New Super Mario Bros. Wii, only two Piranha Flowers are found, in World 2-3. From this game forward, they can be defeated by shooting three fireballs at them or by using a Star.

One Big Venus Fire Trap reappears in New Super Mario Bros. 2, in World 5-6. Rather than shooting large fireballs, Big Venus Fire Traps shoot out normal-sized ones like their smaller counterparts.

After an absence in New Super Mario Bros. U, Big Venus Fire Traps reappear in New Super Luigi U in Piranhas in the Dark, Slippery Rope Ladders, Light-Up-Lift Tower, and Rising Piranhas. They reappear in the New Super Luigi U levels in New Super Mario Bros. U Deluxe.

Big Venus Fire Traps can appear in Super Mario Maker and Super Mario Maker for Nintendo 3DS if the player enlarges a Fire Piranha Plant with a Super Mushroom. It is the first game where Big Venus Fire Traps can appear in Warp Pipes. 

Big Fire Piranhas return in Super Mario Maker 2, acting as they did before. In the Super Mario 3D World style, they have the same Super Mario 3D Land appearance as their smaller counterparts and can be safely stomped on.

Big Fire Piranhas reappear in Super Mario Bros. Wonder, first appearing in Upshroom Downshroom and appearing as uncommon enemies throughout the game. Like in Super Mario Maker 2's 3D World style, they use the Fire Piranha Plant's 3D Land appearance and act the same as in previous 2D appearances, though they spit multiple fireballs at once just like their smaller relatives.

Big Fire Piranhas also appear in Mario & Luigi: Bowser's Inside Story and its remake, where they were raised by Fawful and temporarily prevent Bowser from passing in Peach's Castle. Mario and Luigi must go to the Chest Station within Bowser's body and spring Bowser into the Big Fire Piranhas several times to defeat them. Getting hit by fireballs or any Piranha Plants and Chain Chomps along the way will cause Bowser to lose 10 coins.

While Big Fire Piranhas do not appear in Super Smash Bros. Ultimate, they are mentioned briefly by Viridi during Palutena's Guidance dialogue for Piranha Plant. Unlike most other variations generally mentioned in order of appearance, they are listed amongst New Super Mario Bros. Wii debuts. Big Piranhas, Nipper Spores, Small Piranhas, and Fire Stalking Piranhas are similarly listed out of order.