Big Bullies, or Bomb Kings, are a variant of Bully that first appears in Super Mario 64. Like their normal counterparts, Big Bullies are black spheres with yellow horns and green round feet.

In Super Mario 64 and Super Mario 64 DS, there are two Big Bullies in Lethal Lava Land. They are fought in the first two missions, Boil the Big Bully and Bully the Bullies, respectively. When battling Mario, Yoshi, Luigi, or Wario, the Big Bully tries to shove him into the lava, but the Big Bully cannot injure him directly. The main difference with Big Bullies from their normal counterparts is that they are capable of knocking the player character back farther. Likewise, the player character cannot directly harm Big Bullies, so to defeat them, the player character has to knock them into the lava by either punching, kicking, or ground-pounding them.
In Boil the Big Bully, the player character must go to a square-shaped platform near the north-center of the course, which is where he encounters a Big Bully. If the player character knocks the Big Bully onto the sinking platform next to its own, it tries to return to its normal place and stops fighting the player character. When the player character defeats the Big Bully, he earns a Power Star.
In Bully the Bullies, the player character must go to a stone platform to the right of the platform with the first Big Bully. The player character must first defeat the three regular Bullies for the Big Bully to fall from the sky onto the platform. Like in the first battle, the player character must knock the Big Bully into the lava to get a Power Star. 
In Super Mario 64 DS, Big Bullies have a metal collar at the bottom of each horn. They also have a red marking on a side of each eye. Similarly, Chief Chilly has a blue marking in the same places.

While normal Big Bullies do not appear in Super Mario 3D World or its Nintendo Switch port, Super Mario 3D World + Bowser's Fury, Prince Bully is one and fulfills a similar role.

Big Bullies reappear in Super Mario Maker 2 exclusively in the Super Mario 3D World style, acting as they did in Super Mario 64. They can be created by giving Bullies a Super Mushroom to make them grow.

In Mario Golf: Toadstool Tour, the name "Big Bully" can appear on the leaderboard.

In Mario Kart DS, a Big Bully is the boss of the first level of the Missions mode. Yoshi is the character selected to fight the Big Bully. Like with the other bosses, the Big Bully's appearance is retained from Super Mario 64 DS, although he is a lot bigger than in both versions of Super Mario 64, being around the size of Chief Chilly. In the battle, the Big Bully tries to charge Yoshi into the water. There are three balloons attached to Yoshi's kart, representing his health, so Yoshi loses a balloon if he falls into the water. Yoshi can attack the Big Bully by driving into an Item Box, which always gives him Triple Mushrooms. Yoshi must use the Triple Mushrooms to charge into the Big Bully, which knocks him back. When Yoshi knocks the Big Bully into the water, he wins the mission, and the Level 2 missions are unlocked.