The Birthday Girl (known as the Royal Ribbon in the British English version) is a kart that appears in the Mario Kart series. It resembles a shoe decorated with spotted ribbons (which serve as the exhaust pipes) and bows. The emblem appears on the center of the front bow.

The Birthday Girl first appears as a default kart body in Mario Kart 7. Like the Peach Parasol glider, it changes color for Daisy, Rosalina, and Honey Queen, receiving an orange, blue, and purple color scheme, respectively. Furthermore, it is Peach's, Daisy's, and Rosalina's signature kart, as well as one of Honey Queen's, alongside the Bumble V. Although it changes color for most female characters, Peach, Miis, or other characters do not get a color change.
The Birthday Girl offers a high acceleration and handling boost, while its speed, weight, and off-road are hindered. It is tied with the Cloud 9 and Tiny Tug for the lowest speed of all kart bodies, while being tied with the Egg 1 and Bumble V for having the highest acceleration of all kart bodies. Lastly, the Birthday Girl is tied with the Cloud 9 and Koopa Clown for having the highest handling of all kart bodies.
Male or indeterminate-gender CPU racers do not use this kart. It has the same engine noise as the Standard Bike from Mario Kart Wii.

The Birthday Girl returns in Mario Kart Tour, where it is classified as a Normal kart. Unlike its Mario Kart 7 appearance, it only has the default coloration no matter which driver is using it. The bow at the back is also given spots like the front one. It uses yellow-rimmed versions of the Roller tires from Mario Kart 7. The Birthday Girl increases the duration of Dash Panel speed boosts and the number of points resulted from using Dash Panels.
The game presents five variants of the Birthday Girl, two of which are derived from the kart's character-specific color schemes from Mario Kart 7. Rosalina’s color scheme for the kart is used for a variant called the Birthday Girl Rosalina, which also has the Normal classification, and Daisy’s color scheme for the kart is used for a variant called the Birthday Girl Daisy, which has the Super classification. Another variant called the Ribbon Rider appears as a High-End kart available during the London Tour. The fourth variant, the Festival Girl, appears in the Summer Festival Tour, which is also a High-End kart. The fifth variant was introduced in the 2023 Yoshi Tour, named Bright Girl, which is also a High-End kart.
The Birthday Girl has appeared in the First and Second pipes of every tour and is also a part of the Daily Selects base set. The following table lists the Birthday Girl's other availabilities by tour.

A collectible trophy of Princess Peach on the Birthday Girl can be obtained in Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS.

In Mario & Luigi: Paper Jam, a level 2 Character Card shows the Mario Kart 7 artwork of Peach driving the Birthday Girl. When used in battle, the card enables the player with the highest attack power to act first for a limited time.