Blaze the Cat is a character from the Sonic the Hedgehog franchise, introduced to the series in Sonic Rush. Possessing the ability of pyrokinesis, she is an imperial princess from an alternate dimension and the guardian of the Sol Emeralds, her world's version of the Chaos Emeralds. In the Super Mario franchise, Blaze is a playable character featured in the Mario & Sonic series, with her character type being All-Around.

Blaze appears in Mario & Sonic at the Olympic Games. She is an All-Around character, and she is the fastest character in that category alongside Luigi. She also has the most power out of all female characters, having the same power as Mario's, but also the lowest skill among them, though her skill is still decent. She is seen in the opening, participating in 110m Hurdles. She is voiced by Erica Schroeder (credited as Bella Hudson), her original voice actress from Sonic Rush.

She has also appeared in Mario & Sonic at the Olympic Winter Games. She is again an All-Around character who excels in speed. In the opening, Blaze takes part in Moguls and Ice Hockey. In Adventure Tour, Blaze has a minigame called "Move the blocks"; in this minigame she must use her fire powers and move the signed blocks to the same signed floor. If the player makes a mistake, the player can move Blaze to the red button and reset the puzzle by pressing it.

Blaze reappears in as an All-Around playable character in the Wii version of Mario & Sonic at the London 2012 Olympic Games. She is now voiced by Laura Bailey, reprising her role from 2010's Sonic Free Riders. In this game, Blaze wears her athletic wear from Mario & Sonic at the Olympic Games for most Events, her winter gear for Equestrian events and a new outfit for Gymnastics and Aquatics events. In the opening, Blaze appears at the start with all of the other athletes, as well as competing in Synchronized Swimming and Dream Uneven Bars. An updated version with the athletic wear of the Mii outfit appears, and Blaze is also a character that can be spoken to in order to play minigames and earn stickers in London Party mode.
In the Nintendo 3DS version, Blaze is included in the Girls group, meaning that she is only playable in certain events. In the Story Mode, Blaze first appears protecting a group of Toads with Peach from some imposters, which they manage to defeat and then save Daisy and Amy. The group then find Rouge, and after recovering from her brainwashing she leads them to Hyde Park's fog machine, which Blaze destroys. Blaze decides to stay behind in Hyde Park with the other girls, Rouge and Toads to keep an eye on things there. She later calls Mario, Luigi, Sonic and Tails to support them when they face Bowser and Dr. Eggman, and appears at the opening ceremony for the games. In the bonus episodes, Blaze appears volunteering to help with the invitations with Peach, the Toads and Amy, and challenges Amy to an Olympic Event to try to stop her when she asks to deliver Sonic's invitation personally. Although Amy wins, Blaze manages to accidentally knock the invitations onto the floor, so Amy decides to stay anyway to help pick them up. Blaze later helps Princess Peach when she tries to stop Daisy from taking Amy on a shopping trip. Blaze helps to mail the invitations out, and after the group concludes that Bowser and Dr. Eggman got their invitations, Blaze tries to head back to the hotel, but is convinced to go on a shopping trip with Peach, Daisy, Amy and the Toads instead. A badge of Blaze can also be obtained from the badge machine.

Blaze appears again in Mario & Sonic at the Sochi 2014 Olympic Winter Games. She is an All-Around character.

Blaze appears as a playable character in Mario & Sonic at the Rio 2016 Olympic Games. In the opening, she participates in Duel Beach Volleyball.

Blaze reappears in Mario & Sonic at the Olympic Games Tokyo 2020 as a playable character. In the opening, she participates in 100m. Like many other Super Mario and Sonic characters in the game, Blaze wears outfits that are event-appropriate. She is this time voiced by Erica Lindbeck, who previously portrayed Ashley in WarioWare Gold, and her current voice actress as of Team Sonic Racing.
She also appears in the arcade version as an All-Around playable character, added on July 22, 2020. Here, she has good speed, above average technique, and average power.

Blaze appears as a spirit in Super Smash Bros. Ultimate. She grants the "Mouthful of Curry" effect, which allows the equipped fighter to breathe fire repeatedly.