Blooper Babies, alternatively Bloober babies or Baby Bloopers, are infant Bloopers. In most of their appearances they are often seen alongside Blooper Nannies, a species of Blooper who releases multiple Blooper Babies when it glows, afterwards Blooper Babies will follow their parent and help it pursue Mario. 

They first appear in Super Mario Bros. 3 and reappear in its enhanced port Super Mario Advance 4: Super Mario Bros. 3, where they are children of Bloobers with kids and swim in a straight line when released by Scattering Bloobers.

They appear in New Super Mario Bros. along with Blooper Nanny where they behave exactly the same as in Super Mario Bros. 3. They only appear in large numbers in a bonus room of World 3-3.

Blooper Babies and Blooper Nanny reappear in New Super Mario Bros. Wii where they behave in the same way as in New Super Mario Bros. In this appearance they appear to lack pupils. They can only be found in World 4-4.

Blooper Babies reappear in World 3-5 of New Super Mario Bros. 2 along with Blooper Nannies. They behave the same way as in preceding titles.

Blooper Babies, as well as Blooper Nannies, appear in New Super Mario Bros. U. It is one of the rarest enemies in the game, only appearing in the secret level Blooper's Secret Lair. They behave the same as in past games. As Blooper Nannies do not appear in New Super Luigi U, Blooper Babies are absent as well. Their artwork depicts them with pupils, despite being notably absent in-game.

Blooper Babies reappear in Super Mario Maker, Super Mario Maker for Nintendo 3DS and Super Mario Maker 2  along with Blooper Nannies. Unlike previous games, the Blooper Nannies do not release them at Mario.

Bloober babies make a few rare appearances on The Adventures of Super Mario Bros. 3, where they appear alongside their parents. In "Oh, Brother!", a Bloober with kids is seen in Pipe Land, just like in the game. In "Recycled Koopa", a Koopa Zombie releases Bloober babies from a ketchup bottle after squeezing it.

In Leaping Lizards, Luigi can spot some Bloober babies if he falls into a body of water, and is pulled under by an Anchor he picked up.

Blooper babies appear again alongside a Blooper with kids in Super Mario RPG: Legend of the Seven Stars. Touching one of them starts a battle with a normal Blooper.

In Paper Mario, Blooper Babies are released in pairs by the Super Blooper. They attack in the same manner as Jungle Fuzzies and Swoopulas, draining health from Mario up to five times until an Action Command bar is filled. However, if Mario is electrified, they will not be able to latch on to him and will take damage whenever they try.

In Dance Dance Revolution: Mario Mix, Blooper Babies, referred to as mini-Bloopers, appear during the Big Blooper Battle of World 2-4. They can be stepped on if timed with the beat, but if missed, ink will spill to the bottom on the screen, hindering visibility of arrows.

In Mario Kart Tour, Blooper Babies makes a cameo appearance on the Blooper Hanafuda glider. This glider uses the same Blooper artwork from Mario Hanafuda.
In the Booster Course Pass for Mario Kart 8 Deluxe, Blooper Babies make a cameo alongside Blooper Nannies as a mobile in the background of Squeaky Clean Sprint. The course returns in Mario Kart Tour.

In LEGO Super Mario Character Pack Series 6, one of the eight figure packs includes a Blooper Nanny and three Baby Bloopers, constructed of three pieces each.

In The Super Mario Bros. Movie, illustrations of Blooper Babies can be seen on bags in a storefront window in both the teaser posterMedia:TSMBM Poster BG.jpg and in one scene of movie.

In the Super Mario Mash-up in Minecraft, Ink Sacs are replaced by a Blooper Baby item.

In Super Paper Mario, Blooper Baby graphics exist unused. Both it and the normal Blooper are labeled as test enemies.