Bloopers (commonly called Bloobers until Paper Mario, though Blooper was occasionally used beforehand) are small, squid-like creatures encountered in bodies of water and a recurring enemy species of the Super Mario franchise. Bloopers first appear in Super Mario Bros. Bloopers are usually depicted as white squids with a black, mask-like marking on their face. A typical Blooper has ten arms, of which only two are typically used as such, although Bloopers can have more or less appendages. While most Bloopers lack actual squid tentacles, large Bloopers are sometimes shown with them, sometimes in great amounts. Some Bloopers can squirt ink from between their arms, while in other appearances, they are depicted squirting ink from a small mouth located near the eyes. Along with swimming through water, Bloopers have a variety of abilities, such as flying, being able to survive outside of water, burrowing in the ground, shooting globs of ink, and blasting opponents with energy beams. Bloopers can also leap from the water and charge into Mario and other characters. Their name comes from "bloop", an onomatopoeia for the sound of bubbles breaching the surface of water, acknowledged by how Bloopers use high-pitched warbling to communicate.

Bloobers first appear in Super Mario Bros. and in Super Mario Bros.: The Lost Levels, having a similar role in both games. They follow Mario continuously, although they cannot touch the ground, a drawback that persists in later 2D games. As a result, they move in a regular zig-zag pattern. They will inflict damage on contact and can be defeated with a fireball from Fiery Mario or invincibility from a Starman. A Bloober serves as a fake Bowser at the end of World 6's castle, where it will be revealed as it falls into the lava if the player defeats it with fireballs. Bloopers first appear in the level World 2-2 of Super Mario Bros. In Super Mario Bros.: The Lost Levels, there are Bloobers capable of flying through the air the same way they swim through the water; they act the same way as they did in Super Mario Bros. The airborne Bloobers can be jumped on for 1000 points (Mario cannot stomp on enemies while swimming in early games.) Bloobers share their palette with Goombas in these two games; they appear a tan and brown color. Despite being the same coded object, the flying Bloober is considered a distinct type known as a Sky Blooper.
In the Family Computer Disk System version of the Minus World glitch in Super Mario Bros., flying Bloobers, like the ones in The Lost Levels, appear in World -3, an underground-recolored version of World 4-4. Since Bloobers use the exact same color schemes as Goombas, these Bloobers are colored light blue.
In the Super Mario All-Stars remakes of both games, Bloopers are depicted as pink rather than white, but later changed to an off-white color in Super Mario Bros. Deluxe.

Bloobers appear in Super Mario Bros. 3 and its reissues. They are now half the size but behave identically as before. Bloober with children were introduced, which differ from Bloobers only in that three or four Bloober babies follow behind, or can be released. Bloopers are pink in the Super Mario All-Stars version, consistent with the Super Mario Bros. release in the same game.

Bloopers, also called Gesso, appear in Super Mario Sunshine. They are encountered in Ricco Harbor (including dead ones inside of a boat in a few episodes), the King Boo battle, and Noki Bay. Bloopers appear on dry land and spit goop to attack, unlike before. Bloopers are stunned briefly if sprayed with water. water stuns them briefly. A Blooper can be defeated if stomped, releasing a coin. If a Blooper falls into the water, it vanishes. The game introduces a variant, Bloopad; a large Blooper boss, Gooper Blooper; and Blooper Racers that Mario can ride.

Bloopers appear in New Super Mario Bros. They are encountered only in World 3-3. They move identically as in Super Mario Bros., and they can still be defeated from the same methods as before. Blooper Nannies and Blooper Babies also reappear in this game.

Bloopers appear in Super Mario Galaxy. They are encountered in the Buoy Base Galaxy and the Deep Dark Galaxy only. A Blooper chases Mario if he is nearby, possibly up to the surface of the water. A Blooper can damage Mario on contact, also releasing ink in the process. A Blooper can be defeated from either a Spin or a Koopa Shell.

Bloopers appear in New Super Mario Bros. Wii. They are encountered only in World 4-4 and World 8-4. Bloopers can hide behind scenery and inside of Warp Pipes, quickly launching themselves out at a player character in range. Bloopers are unaffected by Ice Balls. Blooper Nannies also reappear.

Bloopers appear in Super Mario Galaxy 2. They are encountered in Starshine Beach Galaxy only. Bloopers are in the deepest body of water that surrounds the largest tower in both missions.

Bloopers appear in Super Mario 3D Land. Their movements are slower and less accurate in general. Bloopers can whirl around underwater. They can be defeated from either a Ground Pound, boomerang, fireball, tail whip, or as Statue Mario. If landed on, neither the Blooper nor the player character is affected.

Bloopers appear in New Super Mario Bros. 2. They are encountered in World 3-5 only. They are the same as in New Super Mario Bros. Wii.

Bloopers appear in New Super Mario Bros. U, New Super Luigi U, and their port. In the former game, they are encountered in Blooper's Secret Lair and Tropical Refresher, while in New Super Luigi U, Bloopers appear only in Star Coin Deep Dive. Bloopers no longer break free immediately when frozen.

Bloopers appear in Super Mario 3D World and its port. They are encountered in Rammerhead Reef, Gargantuan Grotto, and Pipeline Boom Lagoon. Their movement involves turning sideways and charging at the player character. Bloopers can be defeated from the same methods as in Super Mario 3D Land, with the addition of Cat Mario.

Bloopers are course parts in Super Mario Maker and Super Mario Maker for Nintendo 3DS, and Super Mario Maker 2. They are enemies functioning identically as before in the respective game styles, though in the Super Mario 3D World style of the latter game, Bloopers turn sideways and charge as a form of attacking. Bloopers can be placed out of water, not unlike Super Mario Bros.: The Lost Levels. Bloopers can be shaken to turn into a Blooper Nannies. A Blooper can be made larger from a Super Mushroom. If given wings, Bloopers move much faster. They can be placed in Warp Pipes, Bill Blasters, Blocks, and on tracks.

A Blooper cameos in Super Mario Run. It is a statue during the Mario Kart event, with the Banana and Mario Kart statues.

Bloopers do not appear physically in Super Mario Odyssey, but a drawing of one appears on Peach's fan when she appears in Bowser's Kingdom.

In Super Mario Bros.: Peach-hime Kyūshutsu Dai Sakusen!, several Bloobers appear flying out of Mario's television when he is playing Family Computer at the beginning of the film. Later, a giant-sized Bloober makes an appearance, as the apparent guardian of a sunken ship.

Bloobers, also referred to as Bloopers, appear in two episodes of The Super Mario Bros. Super Show!: "20,000 Koopas Under the Sea" and "Mario of the Deep." In these episodes, they are portrayed as King Koopa's primary aquatic minions and perform the bulk of his duties. The only episode of The Super Mario Bros. Super Show! where a Bloober has a speaking role is "Mario of the Deep," where one is described as an octopus and claims he can defeat the Mario Bros. with seven arms behind his back, despite having only six.

In The Adventures of Super Mario Bros. 3, Bloobers, as well as Scattering Bloobers and Bloober babies, are enemies in several episodes, such as "Mush-Rumors," "Oh, Brother!," and "Recycled Koopa."

Several Bloobers appear in Love Flounders. They are among the sea creatures that try to get Mario to become Bertha's boyfriend so as to not be one themselves.

In Leaping Lizards, some Bloobers try to attack Luigi while he is traveling through Water Land, but he avoids them. Later, some more Bloobers appear in a pool of water Luigi falls into while exploring Iggy Koopa's secret lab. The Bloobers spray Sleepy Ink at Luigi, but if he has a Frog Suit, he can deflect the goop. After dispelling the ink, Luigi frightens the Bloobers away by making a scary face, and finds a pogo stick they were guarding.

Bloobers are falling objects in Yoshi. They are depicted similarly to their sprites from Super Mario Bros. 3.

Bloobers appear in Yoshi's Safari. They are yellow, and their attack consists of trying to ram into the player character. Several blasts from the Super Scope can defeat them. A large Bloober is the basis of the design of the mech built and utilized by Iggy Koopa.

Bloopers appear in Super Mario RPG: Legend of the Seven Stars and its remake. In the original game, they use the name "Bloober." Bloopers are encountered in sea, near the Sunken Ship, and in one of the Battle Courses in Bowser's Keep. One of the game's bosses is a very large Blooper, King Calamari. A Blooper with kids also appears in a flooded area with barrels hiding the entrance to the Safety Ring, but Blooper babies are not fought and touching them results in a battle with its parent. In battle, Bloopers have low defense but high attack. As such, they can be easily defeated, but can do a good amount of damage. They also use their Ink Blast ability to do a large amount of damage. Despite being aggressive in most other games, Bloopers will flee from battle when physically attacked.

Bloobers are hazards in the minigames Mushroom Mix-Up, Bumper Balls, Bombs Away, and Treasure Divers in Mario Party.

Bloobers are non-playable characters in Mario Party 2. Reprising their role from some previous minigames in Mario Party, Bloobers also take losing characters in Abandon Ship, Bumper Balls and Bombs Away offscreen. Bloobers appear in a few minor capacities, including a depiction on the central platform of Torpedo Targets; a fossilized character in Crazy Cutters; a drawing shaped like it in the desert area of ystery Land]]; and a mechanical object at the bottom right of Space Land.

Bloobers are non-playable characters in Mario Party 3. They are encountered in Deep Bloober Sea. Two giant Bloobers, consisting of a child and mother, move player characters to different spaces around the board. Some Bloobers are found pulling along clams.

Bloopers are obstacles in the minigame Manta Rings in Mario Party 4. They take away a point from whoever touches it.

Bloopers do not appear in Mario Party 6, though a Giant Blooper is fought in the minigame Blooper Scooper.

Blooper is a character in Mario Party Advance. He appears in the Shroom City mode. He trains regularly at the Mushroom Beacon to become a master duelist. When first encountered at the Beacon, he explains the concept of dueling and duelists, saying that he is training to become a duelist himself. He then asks for a quick duel. If his request is accepted, he is glad that he does not have to train alone anymore. He challenges the player to Hammergeddon. Blooper mopes when he loses, but allows the player to keep the minigame. He also talks about how the best duelists are found in the Duel Tower before asking the player to return, saying that he will be stronger.
Later, at Sushi Cliff, Blooper is one of the suspects in the case of who dragged Shroomlock off the cliff and to the ocean. He was one of the witnesses who saw Shroomlock get pulled in, along with Dolphin and Cheep Cheep. When he was interviewed by Sushi, he claimed to be an innocent "swimmer-by", crossing his tentacles as he said so. He turns out to be the one who pulled Shroomlock, since he was the only one who was actually able to pull Shroomlock. He then proceeds to apologize profusely before dashing off. The ending credits state that Blooper continues to train and grow stronger.

Blooper is a playable character in Mario Party 8. It is unlocked by completing the Star Arena Mode and having Blooper as the opponent in Bowser's Warped Orbit. Blooper floats around, similarly to Boo. Blooper has Hammer Bro as its default partner. It is the only character in Mario Party 8 to not return as a playable character in later installments.

A Blooper is mentioned in Mario Party DS. It is said to be the source of the ink used by Kamek while writing.

Blooper is a boss in Mario Party 9. It is much larger than an average Blooper. It is fought on the Blooper Beach board, during the boss minigame Blooper Barrage. He jumps out to throw Urchins at players while being shot at with cannonballs. When losing half of his health, Blooper starts throwing two Urchins at a time. Blooper can also appear in Bowser's Block Battle if Bowser rolls a die that depicts Blooper upon landing.

Bloopers are non-playable characters in various minigames and an item in Mario Party: Island Tour. The item is Blooper Choppers, which halves an opponent's roll.

Bloopers are non-playable characters in Mario Party 10. Several of them are encountered in Whimsical Waters, obscuring spaces with ink as part of the Risky Route event in Bowser Party mode. There is only one in Mario Party mode, appearing at an Unlucky Space and inking whoever lands on the space, preventing that player from being able to use Special Dice Blocks on the next turn. Several Bloopers also appear in the same board in Bowser Party mode, A Mega Blooper is fought as the boss of Whimsical Waters. There is also a carousel in Mushroom Park that resembles a Blooper, the Blooper-Go-Round, and Blooper-shaped submarines are used by players in the minigame Blooper Blastoff.

Bloopers appear as an item in Coinathlon mode of Mario Party: Star Rush, where they cover opponents' screens with ink when used, obscuring their view, similar to the Mario Kart series.
Mega Blooper is again a prominent boss in Mario Party: Star Rush. In the minigame Mega Blooper's Bayside Bop, this Blooper is a conductor and several small Bloopers hit a beach ball in rhythm while the trajectories of the beach ball is shown. Once it is the players' turn, they must mimic this pattern to earn points. Points are earned based on the timing.

Bloopers are obstacles in the returning Bombs Away minigame in Mario Party: The Top 100.

Bloopers are obstacles in the River Survival mode in Super Mario Party. They slow down players when bumped into and have a route named after them. There is also a Mega Blooper, which is an obstacle of Megafruit Paradise.

Bloopers are obstacles in the returning minigames Mushroom Mix-Up, Bumper Balls, and Bombs Away in Mario Party Superstars.

Bloopers have had minor appearances throughout the Mario Golf series. In Mario Golf for the Game Boy Color, balls that result in a Water Hazard cause a Bloober to appear. Blooper Bay, which appears in Mario Golf: Toadstool Tour, is named after them, and they are one of many characters referenced by the game's scoreboard. In Mario Golf: Advance Tour, a Blooper appears in the sea in the Palms Club Practice Center. The player must shoot three shots at it, causing a Custom Ticket B to be washed up on the shore. Blooper's name can appear in Mario Golf: World Tour on the tournament scoreboard.

In Paper Mario, three large Bloopers appear in the Toad Town Tunnels. Here, they are called "Bloopers" for the first time in-game, as in all previous named appearances they were referred to as "Bloobers". The Bloopers guard specific areas; one is guarding the Shrink Stomp Badge, one guards the upper west side with the Warp Pipes to Goomba Village, Koopa Village, and Dry Dry Outpost, and one guards the lower east side with the Warp Pipes to Yoshi's Village, Shiver City, Rip Cheato's hidden room, and the Ultra Boots. Which one he fights when reaching these areas depends on if he has fought any of the others yet; the Blooper is always the first one seen, the Electro Blooper is the second to find, and the Super Blooper always appears last. While the last two are optional, Mario must obtain the Ultra Boots during Chapter 6, thus requiring at least one Blooper battle.
The regular Blooper is the weakest and smallest of the three Bloopers in the game. One of its more notable features is that it floats, meaning it will have to be jumped on or have a special attack used on it.

Although regular-sized Bloopers do not appear as enemies in the Mario sections of Paper Mario: The Thousand-Year Door and its Nintendo Switch remake, they do appear in Bowser's underwater level. They are enemies that can simply be taken care of by breathing flames at them. After Bowser gets out of the water and is talking to Kammy Koopa, he says, "I swallowed a dang Blooper!"
Luigi also has a "partner" named Blooey, who is a tough Blooper that Luigi accidentally threw into lava during his journey, thinking nothing of it. Blooey supposedly will keep following Luigi around until he gets his revenge, as he states. Blooey appears in Chapter 3. He surprisingly appears in Chapter 8 before the Shadow Queen is beaten, being darker and more forgiving to Luigi. Goombella notes that Blooey is a strange Blooper for the fact that he can live on land.
One giant-sized Blooper, referred to simply as "Blooper" in battle, appears as the prologue's second required boss. When Mario and Goombella are traveling to Petal Meadows to retrieve the Diamond Star, they find the large Bloopers tentacle sticking out of the sewer water. After Mario hits the tentacle with his hammer, the Blooper gets angry and fights Mario. After its defeat, it disappears and platforms appear that allow Mario and Goombella to reach the pipe to Petal Meadows.
In the Nintendo Switch remake, the Blooper appears during the end credits, where it attacks some of the residents of Rogueport with its ink, chasing them offstage.

In Super Paper Mario, Bloopers appear as somewhat common enemies in the Tile Pool, where they will attack the player by persistently following them and trying to touch them; as Mario and Princess Peach have no useful underwater attacks when the Tile Pool is first ventured through, players will need to use a Pixl or Bowser's Fire Breath to defeat Bloopers. Since Bloopers are weak enemies, they take double damage, as opposed to Cheep Cheeps. A particular Big Blooper appears as a boss in the Tile Pool as well.

Bloopers, along with their boss Gooper Blooper, appear in Paper Mario: Sticker Star, once again floating above ground. After one of the Royal Stickers fall on Gooper Blooper, it turns him and his Bloopers into hostile Poison Bloopers that has polluted much of the sea. Some even help Kamek separate Wiggler's body segments. Poison Bloopers can also be encountered as common enemies. They are one of the few enemies that have not been redesigned in this game.

In Paper Mario: Color Splash, Bloopers appear as a common enemy in Plum Park, Vortex Island, Lighthouse Island, and Fortune Island. In the last three areas, Bloopers are replaced with Boos when Mario enters the parallel world. In the game, Mario can encounter regular Bloopers, Blooper 10-Stacks, and Poison Bloopers.
A colorless spot that resembles a Blooper can be found at the entrance of the Violet Passage. Blooper targets that must be hit by Cannonballs also appear in the level, and award Mario twenty points. Bloopers appear in Snifit or Whiffit: Seabed Edition during the bonus round questions; a group of them swim past to obscure cards, and one appears holding a card in the final question.

In Paper Mario: The Origami King, Bloopers appear as members of the Folded Soldiers, first appearing in the purple streamer area. In battle, they can use their "Blump" attack, swooping towards Mario in an erratic pattern before striking him for a medium amount of damage. They also may squirt ink in Mario's face, although this does not have any extra effects. Bloopers can also use "Bombs Away," in which they pick up a nearby enemy and drop it on Mario, although this defeats the other enemy in the process. Like Boos, Bloopers are immune to POW Blocks, due to floating off the ground. Normal Bloopers appear as fishable entities on Full Moon Island in the Great Sea, including the gigantic Legendary Blooper. Paper Macho Gooper Blooper also appears on the Princess Peach.

Bloopers are enemies in the Yoshi's Cookie remake in Nintendo Puzzle Collection. They are in normal difficulty only and replace Cheep Cheep from the original game.

Bloopers appear in Mario & Luigi: Superstar Saga and Mario & Luigi: Superstar Saga + Bowser's Minions. They are encountered in the Seabed. Bloopers use their classic zigzagging style of movement. These Bloopers attack by running into Mario or Luigi and damaging them. The Bros. can defend themselves by hammering the Bloopers that they encounter. Elite Pestnuts and, more rarely, Goomdivers, can sometimes appear in battle with them. Bloopers are weak to Thunderhand, though they can only be hit by an Advanced Thunder Bros. due to them being high up in the air, so a solo Thunderhand attack and a normal Thunder Bros. attack (unless the second Action Command is not inputted correctly in the original game) will not hit them.
A new type of robotic Bloopers, called Mecha-Bloopers, also appear in the game, being found in the Seabed and the underwater portions of Gwarhar Lagoon. These Bloopers attack with their arms, which are actually five Bullet Bills that are launched at Mario and Luigi, counterattack immediately when they are attacked, and are weak to electricity.

A Blooper fountain statue called the Sea Pipe Statue is the first true boss battle for Bowser in Mario & Luigi: Bowser's Inside Story, although Bowser must inhale the Stone Blooper on the statue for Mario and Luigi to battle it inside his body. Two Blooper sub-species called Dried Bloopers and Bubble Bloopers are also encountered in the Pump Works in Bowser's body. These enemies are dependent of the water levels in Bowser's body. Bubble Bloopers, encountered when Bowser drinks water, attack by rolling or bouncing. If Bowser stops drinking water, Bubble Bloopers become Dried Bloopers. Dried Bloopers attack Mario and Luigi by floating into them. They also have nearly identical stats to each other, with the exception of the speed stat.
In Mario & Luigi: Bowser's Inside Story + Bowser Jr.'s Journey, unused sprites of regular Bloopers exist in the game's files, implying they would've been enemies for the Bowser Jr.'s Journey mode of the game.

Although Bloopers do not appear as standalone enemies in Mario & Luigi: Dream Team, a new common enemy called a Bloopurn is found in Dreamy Driftwood Shore. It attacks by sending three Bloopers that move toward Mario, which can be dodged or countered with a hammer, depending on its attack. Bowser also mentions how Antasma sounds like a "beached Blooper" in Dream's Deep ("beached Bloopurn" in the British English version).

A Blooper appears on Bowser's extra Battle Card, alongside Bowser, a Goomba, a Koopa Troopa, a Spiny, a Hammer Bro and a Koopa Paratroopa, in Mario & Luigi: Paper Jam. A Blooper is also mentioned by Lakitu in the Lakitu Info Center.

Bloopers do not appear in Dance Dance Revolution: Mario Mix, but two of their variants do, Big Blooper and mini-Bloopers.

Bloopers appear in Super Princess Peach. They are encountered in the Subrella sections. A Blooper is defeated if hit by a bubble from the submarine. Bloopers were given a variant, Glad Bloopers. Additionally, Gooper Blooper returns as a boss.

Bloopers are items in Mario Kart DS. Bloopers can be obtained from 3rd to 6th place, and CPUs and players also obtain them in 2nd place in VS races. When used, a Blooper creates a large ink blot of all players in front of the user, obstructing players' view temporarily and causing CPU characters to swerve around on courses. More ink restricts a player's view the higher ranked they are. If the Blooper is used while in first place, only the user's view is blocked. The ink can be removed prematurely by using either a Dash Mushroom, a Super Star, a Boo, or a Bullet Bill, as well as from driving on a Dash Panel.

Bloopers are items in Mario Kart Wii. Bloopers can be obtained from 4th to 9th place, and CPUs can also obtain them in 10th place in VS races. Racers in 6th and 7th place have a 7.5 percent chance of obtaining a Blooper, a higher possibility than any of the other rankings. Bloopers are unobtainable for the first fifteen seconds of a race, and using a Blooper requires at least fifteen seconds to pass before another can be obtained. The Blooper was changed from the previous game to take longer to squirt ink. Only one Blooper can be in play at a time, similarly to a Thunder Cloud, Spiny Shell, Bullet Bill, POW Block, or a Lightning. Besides the item, the Super Blooper kart is based on a Blooper.

Bloopers are items in Mario Kart 7. Bloopers can be obtained from 4th to 6th place, and CPUs can also obtain them in 7th place in VS races. A Blooper is also one of the items part of the Lucky Seven; if another driver touches the Blooper, the Blooper briefly obstructs their view from a single blot of ink. The Blooper part of the Lucky Seven leaves an ink trail of bubbles if it rotates around the player while underwater.

Bloopers are items in Mario Kart 8 and Mario Kart 8 Deluxe. They can be obtained when the player is 3300 to 5500 units away from whoever is in first place. A change from before is that Bloopers cause affected racers to have move slippery handling and drifting, though CPUs do not swerve from side to side like before. A Blooper can be eaten by a Piranha Plant. A Blooper's ink can be washed away if players enter water or use a Feather. A Blooper is part of the Crazy Eight item. Besides the item, a Blooper-like shuttle circles around Rainbow Road, and it is also the track's stamp.

In Mario Kart Tour, after a Blooper squirts ink onto the screen, the player can wipe it off themselves by dragging their finger on the touch screen. Dash Panel and Mushroom boosts can also get rid of the ink like in previous games, in addition to Mini-Turbos and Jump Boosts. In addition, the Super Blooper kart returns in this game. A new golden variant known as the Gold Blooper also debuts in this game while a kart based on the Blooper space shuttles in Mario Kart 8's Rainbow Road also appears called the Blooper Shuttle. The Lucky Seven also returns in the game as the special item of various characters. The player can now repel a Blooper with the Super Horn, which will reward the player with points.
The following gliders in Mario Kart Tour increase the chance of getting Bloopers and points for hitting racers with one.

Bloopers are enemies in Mario vs. Donkey Kong 2: March of the Minis. They first appear in Tropical Island as small variations, in Room 3. Initially, they seem stationary, blocking the Mini Marios' way, but as the Mini Marios approach them, they jump and hover for a few seconds, allowing the toys to pass underneath them.

Bloopers appear in Yoshi's Island DS. They are encountered in early stages of World 3. They attack by hopping up and down in bodies of water. A Blooper can be defeated from either being eaten, hit by an egg, or jumped on. Three Bloopers are part of the Aquatic Enemy Exhibit of the Island Museum.

Bloopers appear in Yoshi's New Island. They are encountered in Spray Day Mayday only. During the Submarine Yoshi section, Bloopers try to swim into Yoshi, slowing him briefly on contact. A Blooper is defeated if hit by a missile.

Bloopers are collectible items throughout the Super Smash Bros. series. One appears as a trophy in Super Smash Bros. Brawl and Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS, both having it as obtainable randomly in any of the single-player modes. In Super Smash Bros. Ultimate, a Novice class Shield-type primary primary spirit of a Blooper appears, and when equipped, the fighter's weight is reduced, increasing their speed but making them easier to launch. In Adventure Mode: World of Light, the spirit can be found in The Light Realm. The corresponding spirit battle has three tiny Inkling boys as opponents on the Delfino Plaza stage.
A Big Blooper based on the boss from Paper Mario: The Thousand-Year Door appears as a hazard in the Paper Mario stage, first appearing in Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS and later returning in Super Smash Bros. Ultimate.

Blooper is an unlockable playable character in Mario Super Sluggers. It is unlocked by completing all the practice tutorials. Blooper is on the Mario Fireballs as a balanced character. He is unlocked in Challenge Mode by going to the top edge of the dock in Mario Stadium and use Peach to find Blooper and for it to come out of the water; before joining Blooper challenges players to a scout mission where the object is get a double play with it at batting. Blooper uses a bat is solid white with a picture of its eyes on it. It has good chemistry with Boo, Wiggler, and Petey Piranha whilst having bad chemistry with Birdo. Its stats are identical to Baby Daisy's. Blooper's card information makes specific note of Mario meeting them on Isle Delfino.

A Blooper is an obstacle in the microgame Blooper and an icon for the "Fah-Fah" instrument in the music creator in WarioWare: D.I.Y. The microgame involves the Blooper targeting Mario while he collects coins.

In the Mario Tennis series, a Blooper first makes a minor appearance in Mario Tennis Open, being a blue Chance Shot. This Chance Shot causes the ball to make a strong curve across the court. Returning the Chance Shot can cause the opponent to spin briefly. A Blooper makes its second appearance in the series in Mario Tennis Aces, as a playable character post-launch, being classified as a tricky character. He was originally unlocked by participating in an online tournament from August 1, 2018 to August 31, 2018, and was automatically unlocked for everyone after September 1, 2018. Blooper also appears in Adventure Mode as an opponent in The Sort-Of Sea Monster. Unlike its previous playable appearances, he slides across the ground rather than floating.

Bloopers are opponents found in water-themed levels of Puzzle & Dragons: Super Mario Bros. Edition. Their attribute is Water (which means they are weak to the Wood attribute, but strong against Fire), and they are overall weak enemies; however, Bloopers' related specimens, the Blooper Nannies, are also present in the game and are enforced a bit by their babies. Bloopers attack with ink, and when they are allies to the player, they can use the "Ink Attack" Skill once every 11 turns, which multiplies the player's attack points by 1.5, but reduces their team's total HP to 1. Three Cheep Cheep Coins can be used on any Blooper to make it evolve into "Blooper & Cheep Cheep", and with six more, evolves into "Blooper & Cheep Cheeps".

In the Mario & Sonic series, Bloopers first appear in the Nintendo 3DS version of Mario & Sonic at the Rio 2016 Olympic Games as an item in the Plus Event, Football Plus. Here, the Blooper obscures the view of all members of the opposing team for a short amount of time, except for the goalkeeper who remains unaffected. In Mario & Sonic at the Olympic Games Tokyo 2020, Bloopers are one of the enemies that Mario has to avoid in the 2D minigame, Museum Sneak.

In the Mario + Rabbids series, Bloopers only make a few minor appearances. In Mario + Rabbids Kingdom Battle, Bloopers are first seen making minor appearances throughout Sherbet Desert, and a few of them are blocked within ice formations during the second level, Undergarment Gulch. Additionally, pictures of Bloopers appear on boxes at the start of the level Call of Sherbet Mountain. A Rocket known as the Blooper Shooter has a design resembling a Blooper. In Mario + Rabbids Sparks of Hope, two Bloopers appear swimming in the helmet of the giant diver suit at Mt. Spout, where they can be seen performing the same charging attack from Super Mario 3D World.

Takko, a new variant of Bloopers, appear in Yoshi's Crafted World. They do not attack or harm Yoshi, and cannot be defeated or turned into eggs; they can instead be used as springboards. When used in this manner, Takko expel ink, which scares away Shy Guys. Yoshi can also carry Takko in his mouth, and spit them into a new position. However, if a Takko is left in the same position for too long, it will teleport back to its original spot.

Bloopers debut in the Dr. Mario series by appearing as assistants in Dr. Mario World. In both stage mode and versus mode, their effect is to grant a chance that the initial few capsules will be of matching color, in which it is two capsules in stage mode and four capsules in versus mode. In the Clinic Event for both season 10 and the season 4 revisit, a Blooper was featured as a patient.
Additionally, a playable Blooper was added on August 26th, 2020  as a doctor, known as Dr. Blooper. Its skill is to immediately eliminate viruses of the most common color, even those that require multiple matches or are contained inside objects such as floatie viruses or viruses in barrels respectively. Its skill is similar to Dr. Kamek, but less viruses are eliminated. This skill is represented by the Blooper swimming up and leaving behind ink spots, after which the affected viruses will be covered in ink. In stage mode, the amount is up to two of them, while in versus the amount is 2, 4, 6, 9 and 12 for levels 1 to 5 respectively, with the skill meter charging faster at level 4 and even faster at level 5. If there are less viruses or an equal amount of viruses than the skill clears, it will remove every virus of that color. In versus mode, there is a slight delay between the skill's usage and the execution. If no viruses are found in the area while this skill is used, this skill does nothing.

Bloopers appear in The Super Mario Bros. Movie, where they live in the ocean between the kingdoms. One is swallowed by a Maw-Ray that consumed Mario and Donkey Kong after their fall from Rainbow Road, and it becomes confused swimming within the Maw-Ray's insides.

Bloopers, originally known as Bloobers, are enemies in The Legend of Zelda: Link's Awakening. These Bloopers look almost identical to the ones in the Super Mario franchise, with their proportions most closely resembling the ones in Super Mario Bros. 3. Bloopers return in the Nintendo Switch remake where they can also be caught in the Fishing Hole of Mabe Village, while a figure of one can be won from the Trendy Game after clearing the Catfish's Maw and placed in Ulrira's house. The text that appears upon acquiring the figure reads, "You got a Blooper figure! It's not so menacing outside of the water." while its actual description reads, "It's a Blooper figure. Squids are the hot new thing with kids today." a reference to the Splatoon series.

In The Legend of Zelda: Oracle of Seasons, three blue Blooper-like creatures called Calamareyes appear as the miniboss of Poison Moth's Lair. They look almost exactly like Bloopers, but have biting jaws on their mantles.

Blooper is one of the fish in the StreetPass Mii Plaza game Ultimate Angler. It is a mystery species on Mythroll Island.

In AR Games, the Fishing minigame features a Lakitu fishing and catching a Blooper. The player can also catch Bloopers when Lakitu begins fishing.

In Splatoon, some images of 8-bit Bloopers can be seen on the walls in various stages, such as Urchin Underpass. In the Octo Expansion DLC of Splatoon 2, the main platform in Footloose Station is shaped like a Blooper's sprite from Super Mario Bros.

In the Super Mario Mash-up in Minecraft, Squids are replaced by Bloopers. Glow Squids appear as green Bloopers.

In Monopoly Gamer, a Blooper face appears on the "Power-Up Die". A player who rolls a Blooper can normally steal two Coins from any other player. Some characters have a "Power-Up Boost" that enhances or changes this power.

Bloopers, alongside Cheep Cheeps, Cheep Chomps and Eep Cheeps, were among the creatures that could be caught in the Fishing Tourney #12 for Animal Crossing: Pocket Camp on March 14, 2019, as part of the Super Mario crossover event for Mario Day. A Blooper balloon attached to a Brick Block could also be obtained as special furniture after reaching the 1,500, 1,800, 2,200, or 2,800 cm milestone.

While no Bloopers actually appear in Mario & Luigi: Partners in Time, in the early version of the game, there was going to be a land-based version of Bloopers wearing shoes, under the name "Scoot Bloop," but it was removed for unknown reasons.