Blue Coins (also formatted as blue coins) are a special type of coin first appearing in Super Mario Bros. 3 and returning in many other games of the Super Mario franchise since. Blue Coins typically appear in large groups after a switch is pressed, and they may vary from a light cyan to a deep, heavily saturated blue.

Blue Coins first appear in Super Mario Bros. 3, where they appear in certain spots for as long as a Switch Block is in effect. Blue Coins have the same value as standard Gold Coins and are found usually in clusters. They have a light cyan color in all versions, but are mistakenly described as "silver coins" in strategy guides.

Blue Coins were originally going to appear in Super Mario World, where they would turn into magenta blocks upon a Switch Block being hit.

Blue Coins later appeared in Super Mario 64 and also made an appearance in Super Mario 64 DS. In these games, their color is darkened from the light cyan ones in Super Mario Bros. 3.
In these games, Blue Coins are worth five Yellow Coins each. They can usually be found by ground-pounding a Blue Coin Block, which, similar to the Switch Blocks, will cause a number of Blue Coins to appear for a limited amount of time. Blue Coins can also be collected by defeating certain enemies, such as Koopa Troopas, Piranha Plants, Boos, Mr. Is, or Pokeys. Grand Goombas also give out a Blue Coin if killed using a Ground Pound. Bookends will provide a Blue Coin when they are defeated but not if they disappear after colliding with the floor, a wall, or the player.
Blue Coins are also found in the slides on Cool, Cool Mountain (one is present) and Tall, Tall Mountain (three are present), where they will start to move away from Mario once he gets close to them, in contrast to the stationary Yellow Coins. However, the Blue Coins in Tall, Tall Mountain are not present in Super Mario 64 DS. These moving Blue Coins also appear during the multiplayer battle at The Princess's Secret Slide.

In Super Mario Sunshine, blue coins appear as a special collectable type of coin. There are 240 blue coins total in the game: 30 in each of the seven courses, 19 in Delfino Plaza, 1 in Delfino Airstrip (which counts as a Delfino Plaza coin), and 10 in Corona Mountain. By heading to the boathouse located in the west part of Delfino Plaza, the player can trade ten blue coins for one Shine Sprite from the Raccoons running the store, meaning 24 Shine Sprites total are available using this method. They do not affect the number of yellow coins that Mario has collected; however, they restore two health points when collected. The player receives the option to save their game for each blue coin they grab.
There are some blue coins (as well as yellow coins) in Sirena Beach's hotel that are fake since they do not spin and move. They are actually Boos with coins inside of them, and if Mario gets too close to a "coin", the Boo appears.

Blue Coins appear in New Super Mario Bros., having the same role and cyan color as in Super Mario Bros. 3. They sometimes appear in a trail behind Invincible Mario in a few levels, like World 7-3 and in a secret area in World 5-3.

Blue Coins reappear in New Super Mario Bros. Wii, now with a slightly-deeper color than in New Super Mario Bros. When the player collects every blue coin in a level before they disappear, the sound of an audience clapping will play. They are often arranged in patterns.

Blue Coins also appear in New Super Mario Bros. 2. Just like in New Super Mario Bros. Wii, the audience claps after all of them in a series are collected.

Blue Coins once again appear in New Super Mario Bros. U, where they function similarly to their New Super Mario Bros. 2 counterpart. In the expansion pack New Super Luigi U, a Blue Ring which produces many Blue Coins similar to P-Switches also appears. Rather than clapping after collecting them all, the audience instead cheers.

Blue Coins reappear in Super Mario 3D World and Super Mario 3D World + Bowser's Fury, where they serve the same function as in the New Super Mario Bros. series. After collecting all of the coins, another series of coins appears. Collecting every series of coins rewards a stamp or a Green Star.
Blue Coins also appear as part of certain Cat Shine missions in Bowser's Fury, where they have a blue color matching that of the Blue Coins in Super Mario Sunshine. They are again activated by P Switches, though this time, if the player fails to collect all of the Blue Coins within the time limit, they can activate the P Switch again to retry. Collecting every series of Blue Coins causes a Cat Shine to appear within the area.

Blue Coins reappear in Super Mario Run. They appear for a much shorter time after activating a P Switch than in previous installments and are worth two coins instead of one. Entering certain Cannons, such as the one in Slope to Success. can also activate Blue Coins. While P Switches disappear on use, Cannons do not, meaning a Cannon can be entered a second time to make the same Blue Coins appear again. However, the coins that were collected do not reappear. In Toad Rally, collecting all Blue Coins in a set attracts one Toad.

Blue Coins are present in Super Mario Bros. Wonder, serving the same function as its previous appearances. They appear in a few courses such as Bulrush Express, in which they (along with P Switches) appear during the course's Wonder Effect.

Blue Coins appear in Mario Golf: Toadstool Tour of the Coin Shoot mode. They are worth 20 coins when the ball is near them.

Blue Coins in Mario Power Tennis appear as 8-bit Mario Bros. sprites in the mini-game Coin Collectors. They are worth a hundred points when collected.

In Mario Pinball Land, these coins can be obtained by making a combo without using the flipper. Mario can use them in the Toad's tent at the Fun Fair to buy specific items and play minigames for Power Stars.

In the Wii version of Mario & Sonic at the Olympic Winter Games, Blue Coins appear after the player buys the blue treasure chest in the Secret Shop. Getting all five Blue Coins will result in the player getting an emblem. The events that blue coins appear in are Dream Alpine, Dream Ski Jumping, Dream Ski Cross, Dream Snowboard Cross, Dream Short Track, and Dream Bobsleigh.

Blue Coins appear in the Golden Plains stage exclusive to Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS and Super Smash Bros. Ultimate, after a fighter steps on a P-Switch that occasionally appears during a match. They serve the same function as the normal Coins in the stage.

In the Super Mario Mash-up in Minecraft, Netherite Scraps are replaced by Blue Coins.

In Mario + Rabbids Kingdom Battle, Blue Coins appear in the bonus stages. Collecting all of the Blue Coins will reward the player with a new weapon while the audience cheers and claps.

Blue Coins return in Mario + Rabbids Sparks of Hope, where they once again appear by pressing a P Switch. Collecting all Blue Coins is required to complete the Blue Coin Challenge side quests.

In Yoshi's Crafted World, Blue Coins appear whenever Yoshi hits certain blue Time Clouds with an egg. The player must collect all Blue Coins before time runs out to reveal a Smiley Flower.

In Mario Kart Tour, Blue Coins appear in certain challenges and Coin Rush mode. They are worth five regular coins, much like in Super Mario 64. When a Blue Coin is collected, all the regular coins around it are pulled towards the racer.