Blurps are enemies introduced in Super Mario World. They are green colored, goggle-wearing fish that sometimes appear in underwater levels alongside Cheep Cheeps, of which they seem to be relatives, judging by their similar names in Japanese.

Blurps are enemies in Super Mario World and its remake. They act as a behavioral variant for Cheep Cheeps, which in this game have only one coloration. Blurps swim endlessly in one direction, injuring Mario if one collides with him. They typically bob up and down a small bit as they swim. As Blurps are fairly weak, they can simply be defeated by shooting a fireball at them as Fire Mario or by bashing them with a cape as Caped Mario. Blurps lack pectoral fins on their sprites in this game, but have them on their artwork. They sweat while they swim, implying that swimming as fast as they do puts some amount of strain on them. In the remake, they can be held in Yoshi's mouth and spat out if Luigi rides him, which in their case can be used to defeat Urchins.

Blurps are enemies in Super Mario Land 2: 6 Golden Coins. Much like their Super Mario World counterparts, Blurps aimlessly swim in one direction and can be defeated by a fireball. In this game, they occasionally pause in their swimming. Blurps are found primarily in the Turtle Zone, and also appear in Pumpkin Zone alongside statues of them and Cheep Cheeps. They again lack pectoral fins in-game, but still have them on the artwork. Additionally, their artwork depicts them as light teal with pink goggles and white lips instead of the normal grassy green with orange goggles and golden lips.

Blurps, simply referred to as Cheep Cheeps, reappear in Super Mario Maker and Super Mario Maker for Nintendo 3DS, they act as the green Cheep Cheeps in the Super Mario World style, being the most basic of the two colors, swimming forward through the water or hopping along the surface, both endlessly in one direction. The behavior of all swimming Cheep Cheeps in this game is reminiscent of Blurps in Super Mario World due to gently bobbing as they swim, though they animate slower than Blurps did in that game.

These Cheep Cheeps reappear in Super Mario Maker 2, where they retain their behavior in its predecessor; they are still simply referred to as Cheep Cheeps, including in the description for the official course River Fish in the Forest.

What appears to be a Blurp appears in the Super Mario World television series episode "Mama Luigi" where Luigi is attacked by one, but defeats it with a single stomp. The appearance of the Blurp is closer to that of a Trouter from The Super Mario Bros. Super Show!. Like its game appearance, the Blurp is green in color, has orange fins, and red lips, but the goggles are replaced with large white rings around yellow eyes, it lacks the white on its belly, and it has four sharp teeth.

Blurps cameo in Mario & Wario as a background element of Pukupuku Kai, the sixth stage.

In Mario Party 3, a Blurp can be seen in the scenery for Deep Bloober Sea, alongside some similar-designed Cheep Cheeps.

A sand-dwelling variety of Blurp known as the Sand Cheep appears in Mario & Luigi: Superstar Saga and its remake. It appears to be a normal Blurp with a fake shark fin strapped to its back. It later appears in Mario & Luigi: Partners in Time where it is thrown by Shrooba Divers.

Blurps are enemies in Super Princess Peach. Some of them are affected by the rage vibe of the Vibe Scepter and are called Mad Blurps. They will pursue Peach if she is in front of them. They are mainly encountered in groups. In this game, they have pectoral fins, but are colored white.