Bob-ombs (originally formatted as Bob-Ombs) are living, moving mechanical bombs with eyes, feet, and windup keys on the back. They are generic enemies that first appeared in Yume Kōjō: Doki Doki Panic, a non-Super Mario game that was later remade as Super Mario Bros. 2. Since then, Bob-ombs, along with Shy Guys, have made more reappearances than any other enemies introduced in the same game. Their appearance, intelligence, and status with Mario differ widely from game to game. They are usually a bluish-black, but some variations are pink or red. They also flash red and sometimes make beeping sounds if they are about to explode.

Bob-Ombs (unhyphenated as Bob Omb in the cast roll) are enemies in Yume Kōjō: Doki Doki Panic and Super Mario Bros. 2, serving under Wart's command alongside the other enemies. In Japanese, this incarnation is known as「ボブ」(Bobu, Bob); They first appear in World 3-3. They chase the player for a short while before exploding, dealing damage to nearby enemies, player characters, and brick walls. However, Mario, Luigi, Toad and Princess Toadstool are also able to pick up, carry and throw Bob-Ombs (though Bob-Ombs explode even when held). They are often dropped from the sky by Albatosses, and also emerge indefinitely from certain jars. Certain Bob-Ombs can be found under grass tufts from World 5 onwards, which explode even quicker. Unlike in future games, Bob-Ombs in Super Mario Bros. 2 have arms, and they also lack the wind-up key. In Yume Kōjō: Doki Doki Panic and the original Super Mario Bros. 2, both their arms and hands are red, and their fuses are not visible, but in the Super Mario All-Stars version, BS Super Mario USA and Super Mario Advance, their hands are beige and their fuses are visible.

Bob-ombs appear again in Super Mario Bros. 3. Its instruction booklet strongly implies that the enemy was previously seen in an earlier game, presumably referring to Yume Kōjō: Doki Doki Panic. Here, if Mario stomps on one, it becomes stationary and capable of being carried and kicked. However, it explodes after a few moments, even if Mario is carrying it. Also, they lack the arms they had in the previous game. Some are simply found walking and have rotating keys on their backs, while others are shot from mortars and lack keys. The keyless Bob-ombs will explode after a few seconds, even if they have not been stomped first. They also walk slightly faster and are slightly smaller. Originally, Bob-ombs were black in this game, but remakes changed the keyed ones to blue, and the keyless ones to purple. A tail hit from Raccoon Mario or Tanooki Mario defeats a Bob-omb immediately rather than making it stationary for a while, which is different in Super Mario World. Bob-ombs are completely immune to fire in this game, unlike later games, where fire typically lights their fuses.

Bob-ombs can once again be seen working for Bowser in Super Mario World. In this game, Bob-ombs walk quickly back and forth before they flash pink and then explode. Like Goombas and green Koopa Troopas, they fall off edges instead of changing direction before they fall off, as red Koopa Troopas do. If Mario or Luigi jumps on the Bob-omb or hits it with a Cape before it explodes, it becomes stationary and lifeless and can be picked up and carried until it explodes after a few seconds. However, if Mario and Luigi enter a Warp Pipe while carrying a Bob-omb, the Bob-omb does not detonate for the remainder of the level. Some Bob-ombs also appear floating in bubbles. These bombs resume their normal activities if the bubble is popped. The bubble-encased Bob-ombs only appear in one level: Forest of Illusion 3. Parachuting Bob-ombs, known as Para-bombs, also make their debut. The Bob-ombs of this game are similar to the sprites the ones shot from mortars use in Super Mario Bros. 3, though their behavior has elements of both types from the same game. The sprites are also not upgraded for the 16-bit system, similar to those of Ninjis. When Yoshi eats a Bob-omb in this game, he simply swallows it, like other enemies. If stomped on, it is instantly destroyed, and cannot be used as a weapon. Yoshi is also able to eat the bubble-covered Bob-ombs.

Bob-ombs are common enemies in Super Mario 64 and its Nintendo DS version. They first appear on the Bob-omb Battlefield. Bob-omb attack patterns in this game are different and more aggressive than before. When a Bob-omb spots the player, it lights its fuse and then rushes towards them from behind, attempting to damage them when it explodes. Unlike in the Super Mario Bros. subseries, Bob-ombs do not harm the player upon contact. Their explosion, however, damages the player by two wedges of health. Bob-ombs can be defeated by being kicked or picked up from behind and thrown. This causes them to explode away from the player, leaving behind a coin. Explosions caused by the bombs can also damage other enemies within the blast. After the player character walks away from the area, the Bob-ombs then respawn. Bob-ombs can sometimes be seen operating cannons, such as on the Bob-omb Battlefield. These Bob-ombs do not chase the player, but they still explode if picked up. Bob-ombs are one of the only enemies to respawn sometime after being defeated.
A pink variant of Bob-omb called a Bob-omb Buddy is introduced in this game. Unlike other Bob-ombs, Bob-omb Buddies are friendly and give the player character helpful hints. They open cannons and, exclusively in the DS version, can detect Red Coins and character caps on the map on the Touch Screen. A large purple variant of Bob-omb named Chuckyas also debuts in this game. In Super Mario 64 DS only, Bob-ombs can appear from the sky in certain missions and courses, and also appear when a player character hits a red block without their cap on. Certain red blocks may also spawn Bob-ombs while the player plays as Mario, even if he has his cap on; this is likely so Mario will not be able to use flight as a shortcut. In the remake, Bob-ombs appear in Sort or 'Splode alongside Bob-omb Buddies.
The boss of the Bob-omb Battlefield is a giant Bob-omb, appropriately named the Big Bob-omb. In the remake, normal Bob-ombs can be thrown by him.

Bob-ombs, also called Bomb-ombs (or Bomb-Ombs) and Neji Bombs, appear in Super Mario Sunshine, but much differently than in any other game. They are black orbs with a digital interface, and feet resembling those of a wind-up toy. After a certain amount of time, its screen displays a countdown from three, exploding at zero. However, if Mario sprays them with F.L.U.D.D. they turn blue and freeze, and they can then be picked up and thrown by Mario. They can still explode in this form. Oddly, if Mario picks up a Bob-omb and then gently places it down instead of throwing it, the Bob-omb spontaneously leaps forward through the air and explodes upon impact.
Bob-ombs appear in three episodes: first in The Beach Cannon's Secret of Pinna Park and later in Uncork the Waterfall of Noki Bay. Both times, they are under the control of Monty Mole, who throws the bombs from their tank cannons once Mario gets too close for the mole to shoot Bullet Bills. To defeat the Monty, the player must spray water on the Bob-ombs and then pick them up and throw them at the tank. The player must do this three times, after which the Monty Mole is defeated. The third time they appear is in King Boo Down Below of Sirena Beach. They can sometimes appear when King Boo spins the slots to the enemy pictures.

Bob-ombs appear in New Super Mario Bros., acting like they do in Super Mario Bros. 3. If Mario stomps on them or throws a fireball at them as Fire Mario, they become stationary and explode after a few seconds. Before they explode, Mario can pick them up and throw them. Their explosions can destroy almost all types of blocks, sometimes allowing the player to access Star Coins. They appear in Worlds 4-5 and 7-5, and in the battle with Monty Tank in World 6-Castle A Bob-omb variant called Kab-omb makes its first appearance in this game, only appearing in World 8-8.

Bob-ombs later appear in Super Mario Galaxy. Here, they come out of the Bob-omb dispensers in the ground. They appear in two different varieties: ones that have legs and can walk around, which are less common, and ones that do not have legs and do not move on their own. If the ones that walk see Mario, they start chasing him and then soon explode, similar to the ones in Super Mario 64. Mario can pick the stationary Bob-ombs up by simply touching them; however, the ones that walk have to be hit with a spin first. When picked up, the Bob-ombs start to light up and flash and must be thrown with another shake of the Wii Remote before they explode. They can be used to destroy many things, including cages and Chomps. However, the explosions Bob-ombs make can still hurt Mario. The fuse on the Bob-omb lasts for ten seconds.
The Bob-ombs are used prominently in two Bob-omb Blasting mini-games: one in the Battlerock Galaxy and one in the Dreadnought Galaxy. They are used when a Gearmo asks Mario to get rid of a bunch of trash piles for him. It must be done within a time limit of thirty seconds, however, and the prize for winning is a Power Star.

Bob-ombs appear once again as generic enemies in New Super Mario Bros. Wii. In this game, they usually endlessly spawn from Warp Pipes and walk around aimlessly until they explode. They make their first appearance in World 3-Castle. In this game, their fuses light when they are hit by a fireball coming from either Fire Mario or a Venus Fire Trap, and they instantly explode if they hit lava or a flame from a burner. Like in other games, jumping on a Bob-omb or hitting one with a Fire Flower simply ignites and immobilizes it. Shooting one with a fireball from Fire Mario causes a coin to appear, and an additional coin appears for every time it is shot up to five times. Lit Bob-ombs can be reverted back to their mobile state if they are frozen by Ice Mario or Penguin Mario and left to thaw out.
Bob-ombs can also appear during the World 8-Tower boss fight with Magikoopa. If he hits one of the platforms with his magic, it may turn into a lit Bob-omb.

Bob-ombs re-appear in Super Mario Galaxy 2, where they act the same way as they did in Super Mario Galaxy. However, only the ones with legs appear in this game. The Bob-omb Buddies also make an appearance in the Throwback Galaxy, where they continue to be allies of Mario.

 
Bob-ombs appear in Super Mario 3D Land. Like in the other 3D Super Mario games, contact with Bob-ombs does not harm Mario. Stomping on one makes it stop chasing Mario and hide its legs; it explodes soon afterward. Shooting a Bob-omb with a fireball makes it explode immediately. Due to the Super Leaves being blown all across the Mushroom Kingdom, a new kind of Bob-omb called a Tail Bob-omb appears in this game. Rocky Wrenches may sometimes throw Bob-ombs instead of wrenches in some of the levels.

Bob-ombs reappear again in New Super Mario Bros. 2, where they act the same way as in previous games. Para-bombs also appear in various levels.

Bob-ombs, as well as Parabombs, reappear in New Super Mario Bros. U and New Super Mario Bros. U Deluxe. In the second and final fights with Bowser Jr., he throws Bob-ombs at Mario.

Bob-ombs return as enemies in Super Mario 3D World and its Nintendo Switch port Super Mario 3D World + Bowser's Fury, only appearing in a few courses like Bob-ombs Below, Super Block Land, and Bowser's Bob-omb Brigade. They can be attacked to transform them into regular bombs, which can be thrown. In this game, Baddie Boxes only release Bob-ombs. Cat variants appear in Lake Lapcat.

Bob-ombs appear in Super Mario Maker, its Nintendo 3DS version, and Super Mario Maker 2. They can be shaken to light their fuse. Due to them not appearing in the Super Mario Bros. game style, they were given new sprites. They have been given more detailed sprites in the Super Mario World style than they originally appeared. By jumping on them, they stay still and their fuse ignites, and after a few seconds, they explode. They can also be made bigger or made to fly. They can destroy Hard Blocks, Ice Blocks, ? Blocks and Brick Blocks. When a Bob-omb explodes near coins, the coins fall out of the air and disappear after a few moments. Bob-ombs in this game can also be ignited by Yoshi, fire-related objects, being crushed, and other Bob-ombs.
Bob-ombs received a few differences in Super Mario Maker 2. With the absence of the shaking function, lit Bob-ombs are now added by holding a regular version and tapping the lit variant. Like many enemies and items, Bob-ombs can be given a parachute to become Parabombs, but unlike the majority of enemies, Bob-ombs do not exhibit any unusual behavior in the Ground courses during the night.

In Super Mario Run, Bowser throws Bob-ombs at Mario during his battle in Bowser's Bob-ombing Run. When Mario stomps on, finishes Vaulting over, or does a Vaulting Jump on a Bob-omb, it flies forward in an shallow arc. This usually causes it to leave the screen unless it collides with and explodes against certain objects in the way. When Mario hits Bowser with three Bob-ombs, he is defeated. They also appear in Airship Plunder, where they can be kicked to destroy crates. While walking, Bob-ombs explode upon contact with a Spike Ball or a Fire Bar, and can be defeated by attacking them with a landing roll or a rolling jump. Bob-ombs do not turn around when they hit walls. Bob-ombs cannot be leveled up.
A Bob-omb Statue can be obtained as a building in Kingdom Builder mode, and placed in the Mushroom Kingdom.

In Super Mario Bros. Wonder, Bob-ombs are only found in Fluff-Puff Peaks Flying Battleship. They are fired from cannons and spawned from a Mecha Maker. A new variant of Bob-ombs that resembles firecrackers called Babooms also appear, which are capable of releasing a series of three fireworks when stomped on or hit with a fireball.

Bob-ombs make occasional appearances in the DIC cartoons. In all of them, they resemble their design in Super Mario Bros. 2, but with white limbs and red, perpetually angry eyes.

Bob-Ombs appear in The Super Mario Bros. Super Show!, where they make common appearances by being thrown by Albatosses, Mouser, and sometimes King Koopa. In "Stars in Their Eyes", after Mario's spaceship crashes onto Mouser and squishes him, he throws some flat Bob-Ombs at Mario, Luigi, Princess Toadstool, and Toad. In "Toad Warriors", Bob-Ombs were used as weapons by State Troopas. In "The Unzappables", King Koopa (under the alias, "Al Koopone") bowls a limbless Bob-Omb to blow up the vault door, causing a bunch of gold coins to fall across the bank. In "Escape from Koopatraz", Mario carves a wooden Bob-Omb decoy in order to trick a Goomba guard into giving him the prison keys so that he could allow Princess Toadstool to escape her cel. The decoy eventually foams and Mario quickly throws it away. In "Flatbush Koopa" several Bob-Ombs were used to blow up the Brooklyn Bridge, as King Koopa had briefly conquered Flatbush at the time. 
In "Rolling Down the River", a variant known as the Black Pit Bob-Omb appears, where it is used to create a large black pit in an attempt to stop the Ding Bell. In "Two Plumbers and a Baby", another variant known as the Bomb Net appears, where it transforms into nets instead of exploding. Another variant known as the Bomb Plant appears in multiple episodes.

Bob-ombs reappear in The Adventures of Super Mario Bros. 3, where they appear in some episodes. In "Never Koop a Koopa", King Koopa sends in a large amount of Bob-ombs at Mario and Princess Toadstool in an attempt to destroy them. In "Reign Storm" while the Mario Bros. announce their new dam, King Koopa secretly places a Bob-omb right next to it, causing the dam to collapse. In "Mush-Rumors", the Doomship launches several of them, which fall in the water in an attempt to destroy a family from the real world. In "The Ugly Mermaid", King Koopa launches a Bob-omb at Mertropolis's protective dome, causing a brief flood, which was eventually stopped by Mario. A single Bob-omb appears in "7 Continents for 7 Koopas" where it has a brief speaking role. It guards Princess Toadstool to prevent her from escaping. It was eventually tricked into setting off its fuse and was tossed into the Koopa Clogger, causing the forcefield that was created by it to disappear. In "Recycled Koopa", Bob-ombs are used as ammunition for the Doom Ship while Koopa chases the heroes after they steal Hip's magic wand to clean Princess Toadstool's garden of all the garbage they dumped into it, as well as by the army of Koopa Zombies when Koopa sends them after the brothers during his attack on New York City.

In the Super Mario World television series, Bob-ombs appear in a few episodes. In "Born to Ride," Yoshi is forced by the Dino Riders to throw a Bob-omb. In "Ghosts 'R' Us," Wizenheimer threatens the group with a Bob-omb if they do not enter the Warp Pipe leading to the dungeon. In "The Night Before Cave Christmas," Koopa attempts to give Bob-ombs to the Koopalings as "presents" that will explode upon the box being opened, but is discovered beforehand by Oogtar.

Bob-ombs will show up in Yoshi in the A-type mode if the player has hatched a certain number of eggs (50-59 on NES and 60-69 on Game Boy) before getting a Game Over. If the player fails to make a Yoshi appear in the bonus game, a Bob-omb will be in its place. Their graphics are actually reused from Super Mario World's Para-bombs.

In the live-action 1993 Super Mario Bros. film, a Bob-omb appears after Mario and Luigi escape the de-evolution chamber. As they are fleeing from Koopa's Goombas, Luigi notices that a fungus growth appears to be offering them the explosive, but Mario drags him away before he can accept it. Later, after they leave the Boom Boom Bar, the fungus again offers them the Bob-omb. This time, Luigi manages to grab it before he and Mario escape.
Later, near the end of the film, while facing Koopa on the catwalk, Mario pulls out the Bob-omb, which causes mass amounts of panic amongst the city's inhabitants. Realizing the power the object possesses, he winds up the key and places it on the ground, but before it can get to Koopa, it falls through a crack in the ground. However, unbeknownst to both of them, the Bob-omb continues its journey after it falls. It walks through the lower section of the city (scaring off the inhabitants there), up a wall, and along the underside of the catwalk. As Mario and Luigi are blasting Koopa with Devolution Guns, the Bob-omb finally reaches Koopa and explodes right underneath him. 
The appearance of the Bob-omb is similar to that in the games, though there are some differences. For instance, the wind-up key appears on the side rather than on its back, its eyes are smaller and more circular than their in-game appearances, and its feet have three toes on it. Additionally, the Bob-omb walks like a wind-up toy, and before the Bob-omb explodes from underneath Koopa, the Reebok brand name as well as the Union Jack (often used on their brand name products) can be seen on the underside of the feet.
Early concept artwork showed that the Bob-omb was going to have black arms and legs, white gloves, and white sneakers, while also having pupils on its eyes and a mouth. The manga adaptation of the film, titled Super Mario: Makai Teikoku no Megami, replaces the Bob-omb with exploding mushrooms.

In Mario's FUNdamentals, Bob-ombs appear as a suit of playing cards in Go Fish.

Bob-ombs also appear in Super Mario RPG: Legend of the Seven Stars and the Switch remake, where they first appear in the Mole Mines. Here, they are normal enemies roaming around Moleville's local mining mountain, although they are featured quite prominently in the battle with Punchinello. In said battle, Punchinello summons three Bob-omb-type enemies (including new types, Microbombs and Mezzo Bombs) for every three defeated, each getting larger and more powerful every "stage" or Punchinello's remaining health. Towards the end of his battle, a seemingly insane Punchinello tries his Bob-omb-summoning act one more time by creating a huge Bob-omb, although this one only ends up squishing him and allowing Mario and his party to collect the Star Piece he was guarding and save Dyna and Mite. In battle, Bob-ombs have average stats and no special attacks; however, when threatened, they can explode in a kamikaze attempt to cause one ally a lot of damage.
Later, a stronger, purple shoe-clad variety of Bob-omb called Rob-omb appears in Booster Tower. In the same location, a dormant Bob-omb can be found on a seesaw and used to bounce higher. Booster himself throws Bob-ombs as Para-bombs midway up the tower, though contact with them prompts a Rob-omb encounter instead. Similarly, one of the battle courses in Bowser's Keep features a Bob-omb in the overworld but Rob-ombs in battle. Bob-ombs also appear in one of the keep's action courses, where a pair pursues Mario as he balances on a control-inverting ball.

Bob-ombs (sometimes referred to as simply Bombs) are items that first appeared in Mario Kart: Double Dash!! If this item is thrown backwards, it explodes after three seconds. When thrown forwards, the Bob-omb waits until another driver veers near it and explodes by them. In subsequent titles, the Bob-omb is a regular item.
In Mario Kart 64, there are Mini Bomb Karts which resemble Bob-ombs. Additionally, Mushroom Bridge and Mushroom City in Mario Kart: Double Dash!! and Moonview Highway in Mario Kart Wii feature Bob-omb Cars, which are similar to Mini Bomb Karts as well as Bob-ombs.

In Mario Kart: Super Circuit, a single Bob-omb appears at the award ceremony at the end of a Grand Prix alongside other characters. In Battle Mode, once a player has lost all of their balloons, they turn into a Bob-omb and explode upon contact with another player.

In Mario Kart: Double Dash!!, a Bob-omb is a special item exclusively for Wario and Waluigi, as well as Petey Piranha and King Boo, who can receive any other character's special item. Once the Bob-omb is thrown, its fuse lights and it explodes after a few seconds. Driving near or into one causes it to explode instantly, sending the racers in the air. A battle mode called "Bob-omb Blast" has characters acquire nothing but Bob-ombs from the Item Boxes, and the two racers in the kart can carry up to five Bob-ombs at a time, allowing a maximum of ten Bob-ombs to be held. Once thrown, the Bob-ombs explode as soon as they hit the ground and damage anyone in the blast radius except for the person who threw the Bob-omb (the Bob-ombs and their explosions are color-coded to match the players). Each player's Bob-omb comes in different colors with their colored explosion based on the player order. Player one has red Bob-ombs, player two has blue Bob-ombs, player three has green Bob-ombs, and player four has yellow Bob-ombs.
A noticeable bug is that the Bob-omb's leg colors differentiate depending on which character is holding it; the legs are red when the driver holds it, and the legs are yellow when held by the character in the back.

Bob-ombs reappear in Mario Kart DS, this time as an item anyone can get. They behave the same way as they do in Mario Kart: Double Dash!!. They can be obtained by racers placed between 2nd and 5th place. In Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection races, they could be obtained in first place.

In Mario Kart Wii, Bob-ombs act similarly to their appearance in Mario Kart: Double Dash!! and Mario Kart DS. They can be obtained between 2nd and 6th place. The best chances of getting this item are in 3rd and 4th place, with a 7.5 percent (3 out of 40) chance of getting it in said positions. When playing in either a Team Race or Battle Mode, they explode with either red or blue colors, depending on the team. Up to three Bob-ombs can be in play at a time.

In Mario Kart 7, once the Bob-omb is thrown, it follows the nearest character and explodes after a short time. Bob-ombs in this game can be obtained in 3rd, 4th, or 5th.

As well as returning as an item in Mario Kart 8 and Mario Kart 8 Deluxe, a plug in the style of a Bob-omb, with its fuse as the plug, appears as part of the logo for the sponsor company Bob-omb Plugs. Bob-ombs as items can be obtained between 1000 and 3300 units from the leader, due to the new item system in those games. Bob-omb Blast also makes its return in Mario Kart 8 Deluxe as part of the new Battle Mode. In this mode, Bob-ombs explode with unique colors depending on which character or team uses them. Characters or teams hit by a blast of the same color will not take damage. 

Bob-ombs return again in Mario Kart Tour. Like in previous games, they can be thrown either forward or backward. In this game, drivers are not affected by their own Bob-omb's explosion if it detonates due to other drivers' actions, but do crash if they run directly into it after throwing it. The game also includes Double Bob-ombs, which are simply two Bob-ombs that are thrown at once. A giant Bob-omb variant called Giga Bob-omb is also introduced as the special skill of King Bob-omb and Shy Guy (Gold).
The following gliders increase the chance of getting Bob-ombs and points for hitting racers with one.

In Mario Net Quest, a Bob-omb with a lit fuse serves as the countdown timer. When it explodes, the game ends.

In Yoshi's Story, Bob-ombs, referred to in-game as Bob-bombs, appear during Page 5-4: Shy Guy's Ship, where they are fired by the Shy Guy Galleon's cannons. They also appear during Yoshi's battle with Baby Bowser at the end of the game, where Baby Bowser attacks the hero by throwing Bob-bombs at him from the back of his large green "pet." Yoshi can use these Bob-bombs against him by licking them up and throwing them at Baby Bowser himself for damage or at the ceiling of the room, causing large spikes from the ceiling to fall onto Baby Bowser. Either eventually knocks him off the back of his pet so that Yoshi can battle him hand-to-hand. 
Bob-bombs in this game are uncharacteristically defeated instantly if stomped. In addition, their eyes are depicted as yellow, rather than the usual white.

Bob-ombs are featured throughout the Mario Party games, mostly being featured in minigames.

On Mario Party's Wario's Battle Canyon board, the Bob-ombs and Bob-omb Buddies are fighting; it is the players' goal to collect stars and end the struggle. The two Bob-omb species also serve as the players' method of transportation between each area; in one part of every area (minus the center) on the board, there are Bob-ombs and Bob-omb Buddies manning cannons. They launch the players to another part of the board for ten coins. At the end of each game on the board, it shows the Bob-ombs and Bob-omb Buddies have made peace.
The four-player minigame Hot Bob-omb has the players tossing a Bob-omb amongst each other until it explodes; the player with the Bob-omb at that moment loses. The players also use a Bob-omb as the ball in the minigame Bombsketball.

Mario Party 2 features Bob-ombs in Mystery Land. By paying ten coins at one of the Bob-omb-shaped shrines, a Bob-omb UFO takes the player to another section of the board. Additionally, at the end of the board, the treasure turns out to be a Bob-omb Buddy, who is warped aboard a spaceship with other Bob-omb Buddies.
In Roll Call, the Bob-ombs enter a forest and players have to count them out in order to win. Some of them explode next to crates (for subtraction).
A Bob-omb is also one of the four racers in Day at the Races. It runs fast, but occasionally trips and falls over. Hot Bob-omb from the first game is also present in Mario Party 2.

In Mario Party 3, Bob-ombs appear as one of the partners in Duel Mode, as well as being Wario's default partner. Its health and attack are both one, and its salary is three coins. When attacking, they bypass the opponent's partners and attack them directly; however, doing so causes the player to lose it.
Bob-ombs are also featured in the minigame Crowd Cover, in which the picture can be of a Bob-omb, meaning that the crowd on the picture is composed of them. When they leave over time and when the minigame is over, they detonate one by one.

Bob-ombs are only present in three minigames in Mario Party 4. The first is Reverse-a-Bomb, in which the players must attempt to reverse the flow of the conveyor belts so that the Bob-ombs on them travel to the other team. The second is Bob-omb X-ing, in which the player must dodge the Bob-ombs walking into the intersection for as long as possible. Finally, they appear in Bob-omb Breakers, in which they occasionally appear. Surrounding a Bob-omb by other blocks results in it exploding and destroying all the blocks around it, giving the player points. A Bob-omb is also the host for Battle Minigames, appearing whenever someone lands on a Battle Space.

The Bob-omb Capsule are capsules that the player can obtain in Mario Party 5. It must be landed on or passed three times to activate it, and the opponent who does so loses twenty coins. Additionally, in Super Duel Mode, two of the possible vehicle parts are Bob-omb Cannon and Bob-omb Wall. 
In Dodge Bomb, the player's objective is to toss Bob-ombs at the other players while avoiding ones tossed by them. They are also present watching the players play Defuse or Lose.

The Bob-omb Orb reappears for Mario Party 6. However, its effect changes from the previous game. It is now a roadblock orb; whenever an opponent passes by one, it detonates and reduces the number of spaces they have left to travel in half.
Some of the possible cards in the minigame Odd Card Out are of Bob-ombs. They may also be found in the minigame Treasure Trawlers. If a player pulls up a Bob-omb, it explodes and temporarily stuns them. Bob-ombs can also be found in the boxes in Money Belt; opening a box with one results in the player being stunned. The player may also send Bob-ombs after the other three in the minigame Shoot Yer Mouth Off.

In Mario Party Advance, Bob-omb is a character in the Shroom City mode, appearing in Bob-omb Avenue. He and alongside Bob-omba are members of a Bob-omb gang led by Big Bob-omb, the other members of which are generic Bob-ombs that cannot be interacted with, unlike the Bob-omb Avenue one. When approached, Bob-omb introduces himself and asks if the player wants to talk with him. If agreed, he goes on to talk about how he hangs out with the "Bob-omb crowd" and takes care of their town. He then asks the player for the password, saying that he will give them a Gaddget if they know it. Since they do not know the password, he gets annoyed with them, but says to go to the item shop, Junk and ask for a "Bob-omb Figure". After they come back from the shop with the password ("Baboom"), he notices that they have returned and asks for the password. Once they tell it to him, he sticks to his promise and gives them the Shroom Slide Gaddget, and proudly proclaims that the player is part of their group. He then says that his boss is hiding in the lowest floor of a building. The credits state that after Big Bob-omb's retirement, Bob-omb took over the group.
Bob-ombs also appear in the minigame Bob-OOOM!, which involves using Bob-ombs to destroy Bowser statues.

The Bob-omb Orb once again appears in Mario Party 7, though exclusive to the board Pagoda Peak and having its effect changed again. This time, whenever a player lands on it, the Bob-omb explodes, sending them to a lower space. On the board Neon Heights, a Bob-omb is in one of the chests that the player can open. Picking the chest containing it sends the player back to the start, although if Bowser puts a Dark Star in a chest it will replace the Bob-omb until someone gets the Dark Star. One of the possible Bowser Time events on Grand Canal also involves Bob-ombs; they are used to destroy the bridges, which are replaced with new ones that have only Bowser Spaces.
The minigame La Bomba involves the single player trying to drop Bob-ombs down onto the ground to eliminate the other three when they detonate. They are also among the cards present in Cardinal Rule. The eight-player minigame Bob-ombic Plague features the players throwing a Bob-omb back and forth until it detonates on three of them, similar to Hot Bob-omb from Mario Party 2, and they are also present in Boxing Day.

Bob-ombs only appear in minigames in Mario Party 8. In Cardiators, a Bob-omb is one of the possible cards the player can select; it falls into the opponent's hands and explodes, dealing five damage. The minigame Bob-ombs Away involves three players attempting to drop Bob-ombs down onto the single-player. A Bob-omb is also among the racers in the extra minigame Moped Mayhem.

In Mario Party DS, Bob-ombs appear in the minigame Goomba Wrangler. Collecting one results in the player losing several of the collected Goombas. Additionally, they also appear in the minigame Bob-omb Breakers, being a port of the minigame from Mario Party 4.

Bob-ombs once again return in Mario Party 9. They are featured in Bob-omb Factory, where a Bob-omb occasionally lands on the player's vehicle and detonates after traveling ten spaces. The captain at the time of the explosion loses half of their Mini Stars.
Bob-ombs are also featured in the minigames Bomb Barge and Bombard King Bob-omb. In the former, Bob-ombs continuously fall onto the player's raft. Players must avoid them or be stunned temporarily. In the latter, players must choose a Bob-omb to lob at King Bob-omb. In Logger Heads, the Whittle occasionally puts Bob-ombs onto the tree stump, and they explode when hit, stunning the players who aren't protected for one round, preventing them from swinging their axe.

Bob-ombs appear in Mario Party: Island Tour in the minigame Bob-omb Aplomb. Here, the players must kick them off their rock platform before they can explode. Bob-ombs also appear as tiles in the minigame Tap Dash, and originally appeared as tiles in Match Faker as seen in pre-release screensMedia:Early Match Faker.png of the game.

Bob-ombs reappear once again in Mario Party 10 in the minigame Bob-omb Combo, where a player tosses a Bob-omb in a large field of on walking Bob-ombs and try to blow up the most Bob-ombs out of their opponents to win. They also appear as obstacles in Bob-omb Bogey that deduct fifty points from the player's total if they hit one, as obstacles in Fruit Cahoots, and as a selectable enemy in Meanie Match.

Bob-Ombs reappear in Mario Party: Star Rush in the Coinathlon minigame Goomba Gold Rush, where they occasionally lead a pack of Goombas. If the Bob-Omb is hit, it explodes, damaging all Goombas in the line and any other nearby Goombas. In the Coinathlon minigame Tiles and Tribulations, Bob-Omb tiles that are matched together in a row of three explode and destroy nearby tiles. Bob-Ombs also appear as a possible stamp design in Splat-a-Stamp and alongside other enemies in Pop Quiz.

Bob-ombs appear in Super Mario Party as non-playable characters. They appear in King Bob-omb's Powderkeg Mine when a player passes the conveyer belt at the top of the board. If someone passes one, it will join them as an “ally”. It stays for three turns, rolling a dice block that either rolls nothing or subtracts 1 from their overall dice roll. If the player already has four allies, it will force its way in, causing the player to lose one of their allies. They also appear on the same board when landing on certain Event Spaces, in which they will let players who land on it ride a minecart to the opposite side of the board.
Bob-ombs also appear in various minigames, including Absent Minded, Rattle and Hmmm, and Lit Potato, the last of which involves multiple Bob-ombs being passed around multiple players and their allies in a circle.

Bob-ombs have made a decent number of appearances in the Game & Watch Gallery titles. The way they operate, however, differs between titles.

A Bob-omb may pop out of an egg in Game & Watch Gallery's remake of Fire. If a Bob-omb makes it to the carriage, it explodes inside it, causing the Mario Bros. and the patients to flee; this results in a miss.
In Game & Watch Gallery 2's version of Parachute, a Bob-omb may be fired from the cannon. Mario has to avoid getting it, or else it explodes and sends him into the water, where a Cheep Cheep is lurking. The player gets a miss if this occurs.
Bob-ombs also appear in the remake of Ball. In this game, getting a Bob-omb results in an instant Game Over.

A Bob-omb also appears in Game & Watch Gallery 3's Egg. If the Yoshi eats one, the player gets a miss, regardless of whether Mario is present or not.

In Game & Watch Gallery 4, Bob-ombs once again appear in Fire, retaining their role from the remake in the first game. They also appear in Fire Attack, where they attempt to destroy Wario's statue.

Bob-ombs are common items found in the Super Smash Bros. series. They can be picked up and thrown at other characters to create an explosion, thus inflicting great damage or also knocking them out instantly. However, if they stay on the ground long enough, Bob-ombs stand up and walk around the stage by themselves and eventually stop and remain in their current spot to explode afterward. If a Sudden Death takes too long to finish, Bob-ombs appear and fall on the stage. Occasionally, Party Balls drop multiple Bob-ombs onto the battlefield when they are opened.
In addition to being an item throughout the series, Bob-ombs have also made appearances as trophies and a spirit. In Super Smash Bros. Melee, Super Smash Bros. Brawl, Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS, and Super Smash Bros. for Wii U, the player can obtain a Bob-omb trophy when it appears at random in single-player modes, such as Vs. Mode, Home-Run Contest or the Lottery. In Super Smash Bros. Ultimate, a Bob-omb appears as an Advanced-class support spirit that occupies one support slot. When used on a fighter, it equips them with a Bob-omb item at the start of a battle. The spirit's puppet fighters are three black Kirbys with increased movement speed, fought on the Mushroom Kingdom stage. Aside from the Spirit Board, the Bob-omb spirit can also be obtained from Sheldon's Place for 1,000 Spirit Points.

Bob-ombs appear both as allies and enemies in Paper Mario. A few can first be found in Koopa Village. These Bob-ombs explained to Mario and his partners that they had been kidnapped and enslaved by the Koopa Bros. When Mario reaches the Koopa Bros. Fortress he finds (and is attacked by) several Bob-ombs employed by Bowser. These Bob-ombs have two basic attacks: the first is simply to ram themselves into Mario, and the other is to light themselves, walk up to Mario, and explode right next to him. It appears that Bob-ombs can explode at will and as many times as they want outside of battle.
Mario later falls into a prison full of Bob-omb rebels. Mario manages to free the remainder of the enslaved Bob-ombs, one of which is a pink female Bob-omb named Bombette who joins his party. Some Bob-ombs in this game are shown to be able to explode, and then simply regenerate themselves. Also notable, only Bob-ombs that are allies of Mario can do this.
It is also notable that during the parade, four Bob-ombs appear on the Koopa Brothers' float and explode, then show one of their hands. This is the first time Bob-ombs have been seen with arms and hands after Super Mario Bros. 2. Paper Mario also shows that friendly variants of Bob-ombs are available in colors other than pink (like the Bob-omb Buddies), such as red, green, and blue.

Normal Bob-ombs are rare enemies in Paper Mario: The Thousand-Year Door and its Nintendo Switch remake. A group of them called The Bob-omb Squad (led by Master Crash) can be encountered in Glitzville. Bob-ombs may also be fought in the Pit of 100 Trials. Their battle tactics in this game are completely unchanged from their Paper Mario strategies.
Although normal Bob-ombs, as enemies, are rare in this game, Bob-ombs are commonly found as NPCs, with most of them living in Rogueport as sailors. A large group of peaceful Bob-ombs live in the Fahr Outpost, where they are the main inhabitants of the region. Most of these Bob-ombs living in populated areas are friendly towards Mario. This includes an aged Bob-omb named Admiral Bobbery, who becomes one of Mario's partners. Bob-ombs are also used during Mario's ride to the moon with Big Bob, as the cannon can only fire through the use of the Bob-ombs' explosions.
The Bob-omb variants Bulky Bob-omb and Bob-ulk are introduced in this game, being more dangerous versions of their regular counterparts.

Super Paper Mario is the only game in the Paper Mario series where Bob-ombs make few to no appearances. The only Bob-ombs that are featured in the game at all are Bombette and Bobbery from the previous titles, which appear as Catch Cards. They also appear very briefly at the beginning of the game, where they, along with the other partners from the previous games, are in photographs at Mario's house.

Bob-ombs return in Paper Mario: Sticker Star and are among the few enemies who retain their past Paper Mario appearance with no changes. They are quite rare, however, only appearing in Goomba Fortress, Bowser's Snow Fort and Bowser Jr.'s Flotilla. They are first seen sleeping on top of the tower, when a Goomba wakes them up using a trumpet. The Bob-ombs hop into cannons and are blasted away. Parabombs start falling from the sky, but if land safely, they become normal Bob-ombs. In the second Parabomb segment, some gates can be knocked down using Bob-ombs.
Blowing away the gates is accomplished by having a Bob-omb, either on the same side as Mario or on the opposite side of the gate, chase Mario. Eventually, they stop moving and explode after a few seconds. If timed correctly, they blow up the gate. If Mario is too close to the explosion, he takes one point of damage from the explosion.
In battle, Bob-ombs have the same attacks as they did in the first two games. If a First Strike is landed on it before battle or if the enemy is damaged during battle, its fuse becomes lit, and it explodes the next time it comes in contact with Mario. They may occasionally drop a Bomb sticker after a battle. Shiny Bob-ombs are also introduced in this game. Bowser Jr. also uses a stack of two or three of them as a weapon in battle.

Bob-ombs return in Paper Mario: Color Splash as enemies present in Fort Cobalt, Redpepper Crater, and Black Bowser's Castle. On some occasions, their fuses are lit as soon as the battle starts, and even standard hammer attacks can damage Mario. The Fire Flower or Hurlhammer can be used to detonate them without damaging Mario, and the explosion also damages other enemies or immediately detonates other Bob-ombs. Projectile or shell attacks from most Enemy Cards can safely hit them, even if their fuses are lit. The Ice Flower can be used to put out their fuse, which forces them to spend their turn reigniting it. In Redpepper Crater, their fuses can be lit from fireballs thrown by Fire Bros. In Black Bowser's Castle, Bob-ombs are used to destroy crates and ignite Mega Bob-ombs in order to destroy the black paint factory in the castle.
An allied Bob-omb summoned with an Enemy Card will immediately use their explosion attack on the closest enemy, similar to the Bomb attack seen in previous games - this deals 25 damage but instantly destroys the Bob-omb as well, making it the only attack that sacrifices or damages the user, and making an allied Bob-omb's victory animation impossible to see.

A Bob-omb, nicknamed Bobby by Olivia, appears in Paper Mario: The Origami King as a partner. Lots of other Bob-ombs appear later in the game where they board Bowser's airship and are used as the main cannon's ammunition. They are one of the only few enemies not to have an origami version, though concept art shows they were planned to appear as Folded Soldiers. A Paper Macho version appears in Hotfoot Crater known as Paper Macho Bob-omb, which parachute down like Parabombs.

In Mario Golf, Bob-omb's name appears on the scorecard sometimes.

A Bob-omb appears in the opening cinematic of Mario Golf: Toadstool Tour. Bowser uses it to try to attack Wario and Waluigi from his Koopa Clown Car for giving him a black eye, but after Mario's golf ball bounces off of Wario and Waluigi, it hits Bowser's hand, causing him to fumble the bomb, and it explodes after hitting the turf. In the Bowser Badlands golf course, large Bob-ombs can be found half-buried around the course. If the ball hits one, it momentarily explodes and sends the ball flying elsewhere.

More of these Bob-ombs appear in Mario Golf: World Tour on the Bowser's Castle course, also as tee markers. Bob-ombs can also be used as item shots; using one causes the player's shot to be hit at full power in rough terrain. Also, Bob-ombs make a cameo in Kamek's Double Bogey animation; Kamek accidentally conjures Bob-ombs that cause a big explosion.

In Mario Golf: Super Rush, a small group of Bob-ombs carries King Bob-omb for his Special Dash, and Parabombs appear when he does his Special Shot. They also appear as obstacles on Bowser Highlands, where crashing into one during Speed Golf stuns the player and makes them lose coins. Walking up to one and pressing  will allow the player to use their clubs to launch them at other players and their golf balls to hinder them. In Golf Adventure, Bob-ombs can be used to defeat the Mr. Blizzards that appear on Bowser Highlands in this mode, and they are also necessary to disable the Snow King's crystal-powered shield during the battle against him. They also appear in Battle Golf in the Bob-omb Rush event which can cause even more loss of coins than King Bob-omb's Special Shot.

Bob-ombs are semi-common enemies in Mario & Luigi: Superstar Saga. They appear in Beanbean Fields, and sometimes assist Paratroopeas and Tanoombas as well. If a Bob-omb spots Mario or Luigi in the overworld, it lights its fuse and begins to run around frantically. Its attack pattern is similar to that of the Paper Mario Bob-ombs; however, they always attempt to blow up their targets, and they can relight their fuses at will. This attack can cause a bro to become dizzy, although it can be countered with a well-timed hammer near the approaching foe (as hitting them also triggers the explosion). When defeated, they occasionally drop a Nut or a Red Pepper.
There also two other variants that appear in the game, such as the Designbomb, a Bob-omb used by Harhall that lacks a fuse, instead having a small propeller where its fuse should be, which it uses to fly. Another variant called the Time Bob-omb, a small, maroon Bob-omb with a number on its face, appears during the boss battles with Roy Koopa, Wendy O. Koopa, and Larry Koopa in Bowser's Castle.

In Mario & Luigi: Superstar Saga + Bowser's Minions, Bob-ombs appear as enemies and allies in Minion Quest: The Search for Bowser. They first appear in the level "The Hoohoo Melee Brigade". They are Melee troopers and attack by ramming into enemies. They can perform the special attack Kaboom Bash, which allows them to charge into an enemy and explode. They are weak against Broozers. A Bob-omb is also used in the Captain Command Pass the Bob-omb, where the opposing captains toss a lit Bob-omb back and forth before it explodes on one of them.

Bob-ombs appear in Mario & Luigi: Partners in Time. Here, they are found in Gritzy Desert and the Gritzy Caves. They can ram to attack the Mario Bros., but can sometimes trick them by running toward one bro, then looking the other way and attacking the opposite bro. After they take at least twenty-three damage or after using a Bro Flower or Mix Flower, they either run and explode into a brother or walk back and forth and explode into a chosen brother, which can be avoided by a Hammer (a jump if babies are not present). Both attacks can cause dizziness. A new variant of Bob-omb appears later in the game, called Lethal Bob-omb. Both variations only take one damage from fire and ice. Also, a large Shroob version, called Shroob-omb, is used by Commander Shroob and is programmed to take only one damage from every attack used on it.

Bob-ombs make a reappearance in the game Mario & Luigi: Bowser's Inside Story. Bowser first discovers Bob-ombs in his castle. They appeared to be rounded up in a cage by Fawful and were abandoned. When Bowser frees the Bob-ombs, he gains a new attack called Bob-omb Blitz. Also, in Bowser's Castle, Bob-ombs are found inside of the Jailgoon suits aside from Goombas in others. Bob-ombs also make a second appearance when Mario and Luigi fight Junker. Bob-ombs are one of the enemies that may appear when Junker empties a Junker Can. Also, after turning thin again, Bowser starts literally burning fat, and the fire lights several bins filled with Bob-ombs, and the explosion blasts Bowser into the Tunnel. They are also present in the underground of Bowser's Castle and near the roof of Peach's Castle, being obstacles that the brothers and Bowser must pass by leaping over them. Bob-ombs also appear out of the rocks held by Pendrils when they are smashed with a hammer by Mario or Luigi. Also, during the Blizzard Midbus battle, one Bob-omb sticks out of the massive snowball he uses to attack. Bowser must punch this to avoid having the snowball rolled into him, as well as damaging Blizzard Midbus once done. When his health is halved, he occasionally covers it. Bob-ombs are also among the enemies used by Dark Bowser after being healed by Fawful; they must be deflected by punching them, causing them to explode and defeat any enemies within the blast radius.
Three new species of Bob-ombs are also introduced: Fawful Bob-ombs when fighting the Tower of Yikk in Blubble Lake as giant Bowser, Alarm Bob-omb fought in Fawful's castle, and Dark Fawful Bombs as rare enemies that are held by Dark Fawful Guys in Fawful's castle.
In Mario & Luigi: Bowser's Inside Story + Bowser Jr.'s Journey, Bob-ombs appear as enemies and recruitable allies in the Bowser Jr.'s Journey mode. They are weak against Broozers and Swoops. King Bob-omb also appears as a boss. Also, two of them are seen with two Fly Guys trying to stop Bowser Jr. and Kamek from reaching Larry and Lemmy.

Several Bob-ombs appear in Mario & Luigi: Dream Team; some are seen in the mouth of Pelicrumps, with one or two Pelicrumps holding one Bob-omb at a time. If Mario does not defeat the Pelicrump with the Bob-omb inside, the Pelicrump drops the Bob-omb on Mario, causing him unavoidable damage. Several Mega Bob-ombs that are used to activate switches in the second area of Neo Bowser Castle; after Mario and Luigi defeat Antasma and work their way up the castle's central tower, the Elite Trio begin dropping lit Bob-ombs and Mega Bob-ombs to slow the brothers down. In the final battle, Dreamy Bowser can conjure Dream Stone powered versions of Bob-ombs, called Dreamy Bob-ombs, to attack. Additionally, Bowser Jr. can summon a Bob-omb to attack during his boss battle; it walks in a circle towards the Mario Bros. repeatedly, and explodes if jumped on. A related enemy called Lob-omb appears in Dreamy Dozing Sands, later succeeded by Lob-omb R in Dreamy Mount Pajamaja.

While regular Bob-ombs do not appear as regular enemies in Mario & Luigi: Paper Jam, their paper versions do. However, regular Bob-ombs appear in the battle with King Bob-omb, where they charge into the player and explode if they are not countered properly and also appear in the Dry Bowser boss fight when he uses his inhaling attack. In the Lemmy, Iggy, and Morton battle, regular Bob-ombs also appear when Lemmy throws them in his attack. The Bob-omb thrown will aim for either Mario or Luigi, and when Lemmy gets hit with a Bob-omb in his hand, he will deal some more damage. However, he must be the last Koopaling standing for the attack to happen. Legless Bob-ombs also drop at the player in the mission Bye-Bye, Boo, and are used by Iggy, Wendy, and the player in Bombs Away, while Bowser uses Mega Bob-ombs. Papercraft versions of Bob-ombs also appear in the Papercraft Bowser Jr. boss fight. A plant-based type of Bob-omb, called Bomb Bud, appears as a useable object in Gloomy Woods.

Bob-ombs appear in Mario vs. Donkey Kong and its remake. In the original, they debut in levels in Mystic Forest, but the remake makes them appear as early as Merry Mini-Land. They appear out of small mortar-like objects, jumping away from Mario. When they notice him, they start flashing before eventually stopping and exploding. They can be picked up to destroy Bob-omb Blocks.
Pink-colored Bob-ombs appear during the Donkey Kong battles in Mystic Forest, Twilight City, and their respective Plus World variants. They are thrown by Donkey Kong as his means of attack and must be used against him. Like with the regular Bob-ombs, the pink Bob-ombs start flashing when they see Mario and will explode shortly after. Unlike regular Bob-ombs, the pink Bob-ombs will not stop moving even when they are about to explode. In the Level 5-DK+ battle, the pink Bob-ombs can destroy the blocks on the ground, opening up a Spike Trap.
In the Nintendo Switch remake, Bob-ombs gain a slight redesign, having a more mechanical and toy-like look. Donkey Kong also no longer throws pink Bob-ombs in their respective boss battles, like Level 7-DK and Level 8-DK, as they are changed to regular Bob-ombs instead.

Bob-ombs reappear in Mario vs. Donkey Kong 2: March of the Minis. They only appear in the minigames, and if the player touches them, five points are deducted. They also appear in the staff credits. Bob-omb Fish, which are fish enemies resembling Bob-ombs, also appear as enemies when building with the Special Kit 3. When they detect Mini Donkey Kong, they float upside down above the water and explode after a while.

In Mario Pinball Land, Bob-ombs appear in the Bob-omb minigame in Toad's tent in the Fun Fair when the player hits the Blue Switch when it flashes. Bob-ombs are also shot from cannons behind hit trapdoors during the battle with Porcupuffer and can be used to temporarily stun it. Additionally, if the player defeats Bowser without getting a Game Over, the player gets a chance to hit Bob-ombs into the Fun Fair's Sky Cannon and then shoot them at the target for bonus points.

Bob-ombs appear in both games of the Mario Baseball series. In Mario Superstar Baseball, Bob-ombs appear only in the mini-games Bob-omb Derby, where the player must hit the Bob-ombs into the air for various points, and in Piranha Panic, the player can throw one at a Piranha Plant to earn three points. In Mario Super Sluggers, they are used as items on the outfields in the game. They also return in the mini-games Bob-omb Derby and Piranha Panic as well as the new ones, Ghost K and Bowser Pinball. Also, Wario's Star Swing involves him pulling out a Bob-omb and hitting it towards the field. In the fourth and final cinematic, Bob-ombs are used during a freestyle home run derby exhibition at Mario Stadium, where Mario and Donkey Kong hit them into the sky, and they explode into a display of fireworks.

Bob-ombs also appear in Super Princess Peach. Here, they act as in previous games. If Princess Peach jumps on one of them or grabbed one with Perry, it starts its fuse and explodes after some time. Bob-ombs are needed to defeat Bowser in his giant form (by using Perry to pick them up and hit them in Bowser's face). Other species of the Bob-omb under the Vibe Scepter's spell are the Glad Bob-omb and Glad Parabomb.

The first appearance that Bob-ombs made in the Mario & Sonic series is the Nintendo DS version of Mario & Sonic at the Olympic Games. They only appear in two of the minigames: Conveyor Belt, as one of the enemies having to be sorted, and in Shoot!, where they are enemies that blow up and cost the player a life if hit.
The first time that Bob-ombs appear in Olympic events is in the Nintendo DS version of Mario & Sonic at the Olympic Winter Games, in Snow Machine Fight. Here, Bob-ombs slowly walk around and explode a short amount of time after being hit by a snowball, damaging whoever gets caught within the explosion. In the Wii Mario & Sonic at the London 2012 Olympic Games, Bob-ombs appear in a Dream Event, Dream Rafting, where at various points, they will be dropped or come out of Barrels onto the raft. The characters can Ground Pound to knock the Bob-ombs off the raft, though will be knocked down or off the raft if they are hit by an explosion. The player can earn points for removing Bob-ombs, and occasionally, bonus points can be earned for removing all of the Bob-ombs from the raft.

In Mario Sports Mix, Bob-ombs make a return as an item from the ? Panel. Also, the party game Bob-omb Dodge involves players trying to avoid explosions that the Bob-ombs make from the cannons. They tend to vary in size.

Bob-ombs appear as enemies in Puzzle & Dragons: Super Mario Bros. Edition. They are Light attribute characters, and their skill increases the ATK of all Light attribute teammates by 2x, but it also lowers the player's HP to one.
When fought as enemies, Bob-ombs have very high defenses, which reduces any attribute damage that they take from a single attack to 1 HP. However, their HP is very low, and they take 4-6 turns to attack the player. But when they do attack, their attack is usually fatal. 
The player can transform a Bob-omb into Bob-omb & Lakitu by using four Lakitu Coins on it.

Bob-ombs appear in Mario Sports Superstars in the Road to Superstar mode, a game mode that appears to play like Breakout, serving as a feature of the mode.

Bob-ombs appear in Dr. Mario World as assistants. In stage mode, their effect is to increase the player's score by a fixed amount after completing the stage, where it is 400 points at the first level and 2000 points at the maximum level. In versus mode, their effect is to fully fill the skill meter of the player if the opponent uses their skill, where the chance of it happening is 4% at the first level and 20% at the maximum level. In World 6, the player is rewarded with this assistant by clearing the first area.

Bob-ombs appear in Mario + Rabbids Sparks of Hope as enemies. They are common in Beacon Beach and Pristine Peaks, and rarely appear in all other planets. In this game, their eyes glow red, due to them getting hypnotized by Cursa. In battle, they can be thrown at other enemies after dashing into them, exploding on contact much like a Grenaduck or Barrel Bolt from Mario + Rabbids Kingdom Battle. They also explode on the spot if they are attacked normally. During their turn to attack, Bob-ombs move to the closest playable character and explode when near enough to them.

Bob-ombs appear in The Super Mario Bros. Movie as a part of Bowser's army. Additionally, King Bob-omb himself makes an appearance during the wedding between Bowser and Peach, with Peach blowing him up later on. Another Bob-omb appears at the wedding, where it is seen looking over at King Bob-omb, clearly ecstatic by his presence.

A Bob-omb-like Yoshi transformation was supposed to appear in Super Mario World 2: Yoshi's Island before being removed from the game.

Bob-ombs appear in various The Legend of Zelda series titles, such as The Legend of Zelda: Four Swords, where they are known as Bomb Soldiers, and The Legend of Zelda: The Minish Cap, where they go under their usual name. Their behavior when Link strikes them with his sword slightly differs between the two games. In Four Swords, they turn blue and freeze, which gives link the opportunity to light their fuse. In The Minish Cap, their fuse is automatically lit by attacking it. In either case, the Bob-omb runs around with a burning fuse before exploding, but Link can attack them again to freeze them and use them.
Enemies with a similar appearance, Bombites, appear in The Legend of Zelda: Link's Awakening.

A Bob-omb can be built in the Wii U and Nintendo Switch versions of LEGO City Undercover in order to unlock Chan Chuang as a playable character.

In the Super Mario Mash-up in Minecraft, Bob-ombs appear on a painting of Bob-omb Battlefield.

Bob-ombs resemble bombs with a few differences. The main difference is that they have white eyes, feet, and occasionally arms. Their standard appearance ranges in color between solid black and various off-black colors; most often dark gray or dark blue. Bob-ombs can also be uncommonly found in other colors such as red, brown, and green. In most games, they feature wind-up keys on their backs and fuses, though these are lacking in a few old games. The fuse is usually surrounded by a gray or blue plug. A possible precursor of a Bob-omb can be seen in the artwork for a bombMedia:VSWC bomb.jpg in VS. Wrecking Crew. Curiously, in Super Mario Bros. 2 and during the Paper Mario ending parade, Bob-ombs are shown to have arms. In some games, Bob-ombs are seen to have yellow-orange feet and legs, but others in Super Mario Sunshine have feet resembling that of a wind-up toy. Upon closer observation, it can be seen that a Bob-omb's feet and legs are a segmented exterior of a potential endoskeleton.

Bob-ombs can have several different colors. The following is a list of all known Bob-omb colors and their first appearances.

Bob-ombs are usually affiliated with the Koopa Troop, and it is assumed that they take orders from King Bob-omb, one of Bowser's high-ranking minions. However, whether King Bob-omb is the true king of all Bob-ombs is never explained. In recent years, the games have introduced peaceful Bob-omb communities that have no affiliation with Bowser whatsoever, and their homeland in Paper Mario: The Thousand-Year Door is known as Fahr Outpost, an isolated town located in a far-off icy land. The town is ruled by a Mayor, and all Bob-ombs take orders from him or General White. These Bob-ombs are generally peaceful but seem to dislike outsiders and prefer to keep to themselves. However, by the end of the game, they become more welcoming. The Fahr Outpost Bob-ombs' culture seems to resemble that of Russia, from the clothing right down to the accents.
Also, in more than a few instances, Bob-ombs were often depicted warring each other, with it often being split between Bob-omb Buddies and Black Bob-ombs.

Bob-ombs serve multiple roles in various games. In their most common appearances, they are enemies who explode upon being irritated, although they sometimes chase after Mario upon seeing him, exploding in a few seconds. Bob-ombs can also be used as weapons, particularly in the Mario Kart and Super Smash Bros. series. Bob-ombs are also involved in several mini-games in the Mario Party series. In Paper Mario: The Origami King, it is implied that Bob-ombs "die" when they explode; but many Bob-ombs in the earlier games, including the partners Admiral Bobbery and Bombette, seem to regenerate after exploding.
The first time a Bob-omb is friendly is in Super Mario 64, when Pink Bob-ombs help Mario by opening cannons. They later appear as friendly (though some are also enemies) in the Paper Mario series.
Bob-ombs appear as items in several Super Mario sports titles. In Mario Kart: Double Dash!!, they are Wario and Waluigi's signature item. When thrown, they stand still for a moment before exploding, throwing any nearby drivers into the air. If the radius is fading, it only causes a spinout. In Mushroom City and Mushroom Bridge, Bob-omb Cars can be seen, and if a player accidentally drives into one, it will explode like the Bob-ombs that Wario and Waluigi use as Special Items. In Mario Kart DS, Bob-ombs return similarly, as they did in Double Dash!!, but this time, it can be used by any character instead of being a special one. Curiously, in the remake version of Mushroom Bridge, Bob-omb Cars do not appear. The Bob-ombs also return in Mario Kart Wii as a regular item and an obstacle in Moonview Highway as a Bob-omb Car.
In Super Mario Strikers and its sequel, Mario Strikers Charged, Bob-ombs are items, and they do almost the same as they did in the Mario Kart series. Here, Bob-ombs can be obtained alone or in a set of three. Also, a giant form of a Bob-omb, called a Mega Bob-omb, sometimes appears, acting like a normal Bob-omb, but its explosion radius is roughly four times larger, plus it sends out a shockwave, harming anyone near it. In Mario Power Tennis, the Bob-ombs appear as an item in the minigame Chain-Chomp Challenge and are also part of the audience in the Wario Factory Court.

Nearly every Bob-omb bio touches upon their signature behavior of exploding, though some bios also make allusions to their fuses and wind-up keys.