Bobbing Basalt is the sixtieth level in the game, Donkey Kong Country Returns and Donkey Kong Country Returns 3D, as well as the fifth level in the Volcano world.
This level takes place in a volcano full of lava. Many of the basalt platforms in this level bob in and out of the lava, and some even sink completely into it. Additionally, the level features some platforms and areas that sink into the lava and never rise back out. The Kongs must quickly exit or get off of these areas or platforms to survive the hot lava. Other common obstacles in this level include tall pillars of fire that shoot in front of Donkey and Diddy Kong and fireball enemies that jump out of the lava. These fireball enemies, at one point in the level, jump very close to each other, and the Kongs can only avoid them by running under the long line of fireballs. Enemies in this level include Tiki Goons, Tiki Dooms, and Squeeklys.
In the Time Attack mode of the game, a time of 1:23:00 is needed to get a gold medal, a time of 1:45:00 for silver, and a time of 2:00:00 for bronze.

The level begins on a straight pathway made of basalt. Two tall, solid platforms of basalt are farther ahead, with fireballs jumping between them. Larger basalt rocks are after this, and they bob in and out of the lava. Some of the platforms even dip completely into the fire, and the Kongs cannot jump on these when they first rise out without getting burnt. The Kongs must quickly jump to each platform while dodging some fireballs to progress into and area with larger platforms of basalt. Basalt is also on the top of the area, moving towards the basalt under it to smash the primates. The Kongs must travel through this area of moving volcanic rocks, while passing up a Tiki Doom. Just after the last platform in this area with a Tiki Goon on it is a basalt platform bobbing out of the fire. The primates can use it to help them reach a flat and solid area made of stone. Fireballs rain down in this area, so the primates must maneuver around them to survive. At the end of this short area is a Barrel Cannon, which shoots the heroes through a stone wall. On the other side of this wall is a giant switch at a dead end. 

If the Kongs pound the switch into the ground, the wall blocking their path begins to sink, revealing a passage for them to climb through. This passage leads up a few slanted pathways to the top of the structure. As the heroes climb through it, the structure sinks into the fire, so they must move fast. When they exit the sinking structure, which has several Banana Coins and a large Banana Bunch on it, they can find more bobbing basalt platforms sticking out of the lava. Above the small platforms are some more volcanic rocks, which can block the Kongs' way. The letter O of the K-O-N-G Letters is located just under one of these hanging basalt rocks. As the primates reach the final bobbing platform, bats begin to fly towards them. Some stationary platforms are just after this last basalt platform, but they are very fragile. With the Kongs' weight on them, they quickly break and fall into the fire. The heroes must jump from them fast to survive and to get to a larger platform with the Tutorial Pig on it. This character marks the checkpoint for the heroes.
Now about halfway through the level, the Kongs can find a DK Barrel before a trail of bananas leading to a wall of basalt. A gap is in this wall for the Kongs to go through to enter an area with two more bobbing basalt platforms and a fireball enemy. Large sections of basalt hang from the ceiling and bob out of the lava farther ahead. The heroes must travel between them without getting crushed to make their way onto two more bobbing platforms with fireballs between them. After these platforms is an area with another large, solid, and stationary platform. Some fireballs rain down from holes in the wall above here, which are filled with lava. The primates can avoid them and make their way along another fragile platform that crumbles apart with their weight. Ahead of it is a stationary platform of basalt, followed by an area with a long, thin platform. Under this platform are some bobbing basalt platforms and fireballs. The letter N is also under this pathway to add to the Kongs' collection. 

On the platform is a fan that causes collectibles to rain down. Near here, fireballs shoot out of the fire in a long line. The primates must head under or around the fireballs to advance to a large structure. Three basalt platforms rise and sink into the fire after this large structure, and a fireball jumps between the first two of them. Ahead of these platforms is a wall of basalt that opens and closes. It is able to smash the Kongs if they do not dash through it fast enough. This wall is followed by four additional basalt platforms. Several fireballs jump out between the last two platforms, and after them is a stationary platform. Nearby it is another opening and closing wall of basalt, followed by a small platform that can only hold the primates' weight for a few moments. After the heroes climb up three final basalt platforms, which sink into the lava when landed on, they can find the Slot Machine Barrel.