"Bonus Room Blitz," also known as "BONUS LEVEL," is a recurring theme composed by David Wise that has been used across several games in the Donkey Kong franchise. The composition was first used in Donkey Kong Country as the theme of bonus rooms.

The title theme for Donkey Kong Country 3: Dixie Kong's Double Trouble!, titled "Dixie Beat," incorporates an arrangement of "Bonus Room Blitz" after the monkey sounds and the "DK Island Swing" opening drum beat at the start.

Both the Game Boy Color and Game Boy Advance versions of Donkey Kong Country have their own variation of "Bonus Room Blitz"; the former has a version of the theme that was originally used in Donkey Kong Land.

Donkey Kong Country Returns and Donkey Kong Country Returns 3D use two arrangements of this theme in bonus rooms.

When a level is cleared in Donkey Kong Country: Tropical Freeze and its Nintendo Switch reissue, the fanfare that starts playing is an arrangement of this theme.

A chiptune arrangement of "Bonus Room Blitz" appears as the theme for the map screen and bonus rooms in Donkey Kong Land.

An arrangement of "Bonus Room Blitz" is used on the title screen of Donkey Kong Land III, similarly to Donkey Kong Country 3: Dixie Kong's Double Trouble!

Various arrangements of "Bonus Room Blitz" are heard throughout Mine Cart Cove of Mini Mario & Friends: amiibo Challenge.

In the Donkey Kong Adventure DLC campaign for Mario + Rabbids Kingdom Battle, an arrangement for "Bonus Room Blitz" called "Jungle Jabber" plays during timed bonus room challenges, which often involve pressing switches and pushing barrels in Mine Carts to reach the end and obtain a weapon from a treasure chest. These bonus rooms are accessed by entering a golden Barrel Cannon, which in turn can be accessed after a specific gate puzzle is cleared for a second time in the overworld map, at the end of each world (except for the Dungeon); clearing it the first time unlocks the gate to the next world.
After the music gate puzzle is cleared for the second time in the Reef, the organ pipes would also play "Bonus Room Blitz" in Rabbid noises. When the puzzle is cleared the first time, the organ would play "Opening" from Donkey Kong.

Super Smash Bros. Ultimate features a big-band arrangement of "Simian Segue" and "Bonus Room Blitz," again titled after the two themes' Japanese names, "The Map Page / Bonus Level." It can be played on any Donkey Kong-series stage, Battlefield, and Final Destination. It was also featured in the "Items" section of the August 2018 Super Smash Bros. Ultimate Direct, while the "Bonus Room Blitz" portion specifically was used for Diddy Kong's fighter showcase video.
The medley was arranged by PlatinumGames composer Hiroshi Yamaguchi, with fellow composer Naofumi Harada performing on guitar. Yamaguchi chose to arrange these tracks not only because of his memories of playing Donkey Kong Country with his sister when he was in junior high school, but also to attempt a new genre of music that he would not normally be able to work on at PlatinumGames.

"Bonus Room Blitz," based on the title theme of Donkey Kong Land III, can be heard during Conker's idle animation while playing his Game Boy in Conker's Pocket Tales.