Boomerang Bros. are variants of Hammer Bros. that specialize in the use of boomerangs for weapons. They first appear in Super Mario Bros. 3, where their name is formatted Boomerang Brothers. Instead of throwing Hammers like the Hammer Bros., Boomerang Bros. use Boomerangs that move back and forth to them. They are not as commonly found in the Super Mario franchise as their Hammer Brother relatives. The physical appearance of Boomerang Bros. has changed throughout the series. Early artwork depicts them identically to Hammer Bros. of that era, with orange skin along with black shells and helmets. The Boomerang Bros. in Paper Mario: The Thousand-Year Door and Super Paper Mario appear to be based on this coloration. In Super Mario Bros. 3 and its remakes, they have green skin and striped underbellies. Mario Superstar Baseball started the trend of depicting Boomerang Bros. with yellow skin and blue shells and helmets. Most games since have retained this depiction.

In their debut appearance in Super Mario Bros. 3, Boomerang Brothers are green-skinned (sky blue in Treasure Ships and World 8-Tank) Hammer Brothers that throw multiple boomerangs that return to them. As with every other Hammer Brother variant, they face the player as they move back and forth in a small area, occasionally jumping and attacking with one or two projectiles at a time, and defeating them via stomping yields 1000 points, while defeating them with any other attack (hitting the block below them, thrown shells, fireballs, tail swipes from Raccoon or Tanooki Mario, hammers from Hammer Mario, and contact with players made invincible by a Starman) gives out only 100 points by default, unless the enemy was not one of the first to be defeated by the thrown shell. While they usually retrieve the boomerangs they throw, there are certain circumstances where they do not; namely, if the Boomerang Brother is eliminated before they can make contact with their boomerangs, if they jump over their own returning boomerangs, or if they throw their boomerang while jumping, causing it to fly over their heads upon its return (unless they jump and catch it at the last second); in these cases, the boomerangs continue traveling forward while onscreen, never looping back again.
Not counting Treasure Ships, a total of 11 Boomerang Brothers appear in the game, with six of them residing in Desert Land. Two separate individuals appear in World 1-3, one in World 1-4, two patrolling the map of Desert Land (with one holding a Music Box and the other a hammer), three in World 2-4, one by the end of World 2-Desert, one as the boss of the aforementioned World 8-Tank, and one as the penultimate enemy of the first Hand Trap.
Aside from these levels, a pair of Boomerang Brothers serve as the bosses of Treasure Ships, special coin-filled airships that are summoned whenever the player fulfills certain conditions. In the Family Computer and Western Nintendo Entertainment System releases, the Boomerang Brothers present in Treasure Ships and World 8-Tank are sky blue as opposed to their usual green skin, due to the space in the data most commonly occupied by green palettes being replaced by a sky blue palette in artillery levels. Futhermore, Boomerang Brothers are represented by the same map icon as Hammer Brothers. In Super Mario All-Stars and Super Mario Advance 4: Super Mario Bros. 3, Boomerang Brothers have their own map icons.
A total of nine Boomerang Brothers appear in World-e. One Boomerang Brother by the end of Slidin' the Slopes uses special blue boomerangs. When defeated, all of its boomerangs that are currently flying will drop to the ground, allowing the player to pick one up and use it for the rest of the level (provided that they catch it whenever it returns to them; otherwise, the boomerang will be lost). Two more appear in a Hand Trap-like section of Bowser's Last Stand (with the second one throwing blue boomerangs), another two in the first section of Koopaling Confusion, a pair inside of Bowser's Airship 1, and the last two inside Bowser's Airship 2 (with the first one throwing blue boomerangs).

In New Super Mario Bros., Boomerang Bros. are rare enemies, with only five appearing, yet they are more common than other Hammer Bros. Only one appears in World 2-5, two appear in World 7-3, and two appear in World 8-7. Boomerang Bros. retain their usual patterns, attacking Mario or Luigi by throwing boomerangs at them.

Boomerang Bros. return in New Super Mario Bros. Wii, acting and appearing in much the same way as in the previous game. However, they are extremely rare, with only two of them appearing in World 2-1. While their boomerangs are usually immune to damage, in this game, it is revealed that throwing a frozen enemy at a boomerang will knock the weapon down. Also, unlike in Super Mario Bros. 3, uncaught boomerangs would only travel twice as far as they did before they looped back; once they cover that distance, they gradually lose lift, tumbling downwards off the stage.

Boomerang Bros. make their first 3D Super Mario appearance in Super Mario Galaxy 2. They first appear at Bowser Jr.'s Boom Bunker, and like the Hammer Bros., mostly appear in Bowser and Bowser Jr. galaxies. Three of them also appear at the end of the Grandmaster Galaxy, where they have to be defeated to get the Power Star in the first mission and the final Launch Star in the second mission. As usual, Boomerang Bros. use boomerangs to attack the player. If one is defeated while its boomerang is out, the boomerang will still turn around and fly back towards the area from which it was thrown until it hits a wall. Yoshi can catch the boomerangs with his tongue and then spit them out as weapons against the Boomerang Bros. The player can flip them over by using Yoshi's tongue, by jumping on them or via spinning, and then walk into them to defeat them. It is possible to avoid boomerangs by crouching, and since Mario can walk while crouching, this makes it relatively easy to approach and defeat a Boomerang Bro.

Boomerang Bros. reappear in Super Mario 3D Land and retain their behavior from Super Mario Galaxy 2, though they are beaten in one hit. From World 5 onwards, Boomerang Bros. can drop Boomerang Flowers when defeated. They mostly appear in castle levels in the normal worlds, and a variety of levels in the special worlds.
In this game, a form of Mario known as Boomerang Mario makes its debut. In this form, Mario wears a blue shell and helmet resembling a Boomerang Bro, and has the ability to throw boomerangs.

The Boomerang Bros. return again in New Super Mario Bros. 2, operating in the same manner as before. Unlike the other Hammer Bro members that are in this game, the Boomerang Bro appears in five different levels, which are World 2-2, World 2-5, World Mushroom-Warp Cannon, the second course of the Platform Panic Pack, and the first course of the Mystery Adventures Pack. In the latter, it is shown that they can be affected by Gold Rings; when this happens, they toss three coins instead of their normal weapons, like the other Hammer Bro species.

Boomerang Bros. return once more in New Super Mario Bros. U where they act in the same way as in the predecessors. They can only be found in the level Bouncy Cloud Boomerangs from Meringue Clouds, which features five of them. In New Super Luigi U, there are even fewer Boomerang Bros., but one can be found in the middle of All Aboard!, an airship level which features every type of Hammer Brother, much like the first Hand Trap in Super Mario Bros. 3. Three Boomerang Bros. appear in Above the Bouncy Clouds, the game's equivalent of Bouncy Cloud Boomerangs.

Boomerang Bros. return once again in Super Mario 3D World and its Nintendo Switch port, working as they did in Super Mario 3D Land. They appear primarily in Beep Block Skyway, Fire Bros. Hideout #3, and Bowser's Lava Lake Keep. 
In Bowser's Fury, cat variations which behave the same way as regular Boomerang Bros. are found in Pounce Bounce Isle.

In the short anime film Super Mario Momotarō, a Boomerang Bro becomes the second creature to join forces with Mario on his mission to rescue Princess Peach after helping it get up from being stuck on its back. During the battle with Bowser, the Boomerang Bro helps by hitting him on the head with its boomerang, as well as knocking out Iggy Koopa with it. After the battle, the Boomerang Bro helps Mario deliver the treasures Bowser stole back to their rightful owners. He could represent the dog from Momotarō.

While technically not Boomerang Bros., The Super Mario Bros. Super Show! episode "Crocodile Mario" features standard Koopa Troopas that attacked using Boomerangs.

Boomerang Brothers appear several times in The Adventures of Super Mario Bros. 3, serving as soldiers in Bowser's army that use their boomerangs for long-range attacks. Somewhat unlike the game, it is not uncommon for Boomerang Brothers to travel together in groups.

A Boomerang Brother made a relatively minor appearance in the Nintendo Comics System story The Kingdom Enquirer, where it attacks Mario and Toad with its boomerangs after the two heroes exit a Warp Pipe.

If Mario chooses to follow the main path to Fort Koopa in the Koopahari Desert in Double Trouble, he encounters the Boomerang Brothers (described as monstrous twins, despite the illustrated activity depicting four), who send a barrage of boomerangs at him after deciding the plumber looks tasty. Depending on how the accompanying puzzle is solved, Mario escapes either narrowly or easily and reaches Fort Koopa, or is hit in the back of the head by a returning boomerang while taunting them. This leads to one of the book's few Game Overs—one of them nonchalantly picks the knocked-out Mario up by the leg, tosses him into a sack of old orange peels and other things he has picked up in his travels, and, upon sheepishly agreeing with his brother that they are tired, plans to go home to make themselves "a nice pot of plumber soup."

In Yoshi's Safari, Boomerang Brothers occasionally appear as mini-bosses that attack Mario and Yoshi by throwing boomerangs at them. These Boomerang Brothers are difficult adversaries to defeat, as they possess a large amount of health and run back and forth quite quickly. Mario can knock away an incoming boomerang by blasting them with his Super Scope.

A different kind of Boomerang Bro appeared in Mario & Luigi: Superstar Saga. These Boomerang Bros., however, were rather tall and thin, wore sunglasses, and had sprouts growing from their heads. In the remake, these are renamed "Beanerang Bros.," with regular Boomerang Bros. now appearing in the new Minion Quest: The Search for Bowser story.

In Minion Quest, Boomerang Bros. are ranged troopers, and attack by throwing their boomerangs at enemies. Their special skill, Piercing Projectile, allows them to throw a boomerang at a targeted enemy, damaging any other enemy in its path, along with hitting the targeted enemy a second time as it flies back. Boomerang Bros. are strong against Pokeys and Goomba Towers. One is seen alongside Wendy, who was wondering how Captain Goomba and his Squad made it through the first round of the Cutie Contest without some Koopa Troopas, which he confirms that they did not, causing him to get tackled by Wendy.

Boomerang Bros. return as an enemy in Mario & Luigi: Dream Team. They appear in Somnom Woods where they are very common. In the field, they chase Mario and Luigi very briefly when spotted, and then throw their boomerang at them. Like with the Beehoss' bees, touching the boomerang engages a battle with the owner of the touched boomerang.
In battle, Boomerang Bros. follow the orders of the Commander Lakitu in the background. A Boomerang Bro will approach the Bros., look at the Lakitus (in one instance) fly in a varying kind of circle and throw their boomerangs in a similar fashion to how the two Lakitus fly. Mario and Luigi can each jump on the boomerang to avoid it; jumping over it will cause the boomerang to hit the Boomerang Bro when coming back and damage it. If the Commander Lakitus are defeated through the use of a Taunt Ball, the Boomerang Bros.' own actions give away their attacks.
If there are two or more Boomerang Bros., the two Lakitu may raise a red M flag and green L flag, one raising one and the other raising the other. As they do this, the Lakitus move towards or away from the battle simultaneously. The Boomerang Bros. will throw their boomerangs in the air also simultaneously, for them to land on one bro each one after the other. Mario and Luigi must hammer these back to the sender before they hit them. Whichever Bro's flag is being held by the Lakitus who's closer is the Bro who must smack their incoming boomerang away first. Additionally, the boomerang that will hit its target bro first also moves towards its target faster than the other, as indicated by the shadows on the ground. This takes up the attack turn of the Boomerang Bros. involved.
If they fly in a clockwise (when looking from the Bros.' point of view) circle, the boomerang will fly towards Luigi first. If anti-clockwise, it will fly towards Mario first. If the Commander Lakitus floats downwards and does two clockwise loops, the Boomerang Bro will jump, then throw, and the boomerang will fly towards Luigi first; however, it flies over the Bros. for the first loop, where they must idle, and then jump when it flies towards Luigi the second time. If it does this with anti-clockwise loops, it will fly towards Mario first, and he must jump first on the second loop.

Boomerang Bros reappear in Mario & Luigi: Paper Jam as enemies, along with their paper counterparts. They appear in Bowser's Castle and one room in Neo Bowser Castle.
In battle, they have two attacks. Their first attack is by walking in front of one bro and throwing their boomerang, which must be jumped over, then the boomerang will fly back behind a different bro which again must be jumped over. If the boomerang is jumped on the first time, the second attack will be nullified. If the boomerang is jumped on the second time, the Boomerang Bro will take damage; the opposite as in Mario & Luigi: Dream Team.
Their second attack is for their boomerang to circle around one bro, which must be hit back with the hammer. If the boomerang is not hit in enough time, the bro will take damage.

Boomerang Bros. appear in Mario & Luigi: Bowser's Inside Story + Bowser Jr.'s Journey as enemies and recruitable allies in the Bowser Jr.'s Journey mode. They are strong against Pokeys, Goomba Towers and Toothies, but are weak against Parabones.

A single Boomerang Bro named Bamma appears in Paper Mario: The Thousand-Year Door as a competitor in the Glitz Pit alongside the Hammer Bro Hamma Jamma and the Fire Bro Flare. He sports a silver shell and helmet, and his boomerang bears a single red stripe.
Similar to the Boomerang Bros. in Super Mario Bros. 3, Bamma can attack Mario and his partners by either throwing a single boomerang or multiple ones by using either his Boomerang Throw or Multiboomerang moves, respectively.

In Super Paper Mario, several Boomerang Bros. are brainwashed by Nastasia to serve under Count Bleck. They are encountered in The Overthere, Castle Bleck, and the Flipside Pit of 100 Trials, although they no longer appear in the former after Bonechill is defeated. Boomerang Bros. attack by throwing two Boomerangs at a time. The game also features a new, shadowed type of Boomerang Bro known as a Dark Boomerang Bro which like all "dark" enemies is encountered in the Flopside Pit of 100 Trials.

Boomerang Bros. reappear in Paper Mario: Sticker Star. Unlike previous Paper Mario games, their helmets and shells are now the standard blue, and as with most returning enemies appearing in the more standard Super Mario platform games, they with other Bros. enemies they have gotten a visual revamp. Boomerang Bros. appear in numerous areas, starting from World 3. They are mostly found in outdoor areas. Outside of battle, they can attack Mario by tossing a Boomerang at him, which damages him. Their main attack is throwing a boomerang at Mario that causes damage twice, during the initial throw and when it returns. Their Boomerangs also sometimes spread a curse on Mario, dizzying him and lowering the success rates of his attacks, as well as keeping him from using evasive stickers. Since their defense is 2, Boomerang Bros. are immune to Hopslipper stickers. Sometimes after battle, a Boomerang Bro may drop a Boomerang sticker.
A couple of Boomerang Bros. stop and ambush Mario to prevent him from getting the Comet Piece in Leaflitter Path. These same Boomerang Bros. (after defeating Gooper Blooper) guard a Heart Block and an HP-Up Heart. However, instead of fighting together, they are fought individually. The two Boomerang Bros. this time are assisted by two Ninjis (one in each battle) and one Snifit.

Boomerang Bros. return in Paper Mario: Color Splash, keeping their appearance and behavior from the previous game. They are only found in Sunset Express, Green Energy Plant and Black Bowser's Castle. A circus version of them called Circus Bro appears in Mossrock Theater and during the battle with Lemmy in the Emerald Circus.

Boomerang Bros. return in Paper Mario: The Origami King, with origami Boomerang Bros. appearing as enemies. They appear in the Sea Tower and Origami Castle. When engaged in battle, Boomerang Bros. either attack by throwing boomerangs as they usually do, or they perform Super Bro Throw, which involves lifting another enemy and throwing it at Mario, which defeats the thrown enemy. Much like Fire Bros. and Ice Bros., Boomerang Bros. also have their own unique variant of the move, Bro-merang, which is the same as Super Bro Throw except for the fact that the thrown enemy hits Mario for a second time like a boomerang, making it the only Bro Throw variant that deals two hits.

Boomerang Bro is a playable character in both games of the Mario Baseball series: Mario Superstar Baseball and Mario Super Sluggers. In both games, it is an alternate color scheme for the playable Hammer Bro, like with Fire Bro, and it wields a large boomerang in place of a baseball bat, similarly to how Hammer Bro wields a hammer instead of a bat. Boomerang Bro is a power-type player, so he can easily obtain home runs. In Mario Superstar Baseball and beyond (excluding Super Paper Mario), Boomerang Brothers wear a blue helmet and a blue shell, similarly to blue-shelled Koopa Troopas. In Mario Super Sluggers, Boomerang Bro has average pitching and fielding abilities, and his batting is tied with Hammer Bro, though inferior to Fire Bro's.

In Mario Golf: World Tour, "Boomerang Bro" is one of the names that can appear on the tournament scoreboard. The first time a Boomerang Bro physically appears in the Mario Golf series is Mario Golf: Super Rush, where one appears on Bonny Greens in front of the clubhouse as the head coach. He gives the player a Golfwatch, then he is then seen at the Rookie Course for the rest of the game.

Boomerang Bros. appear in Mario Kart 8 on the courses Bowser's Castle and 3DS Neo Bowser City as spectators. One of the sponsors in the game is Boomerang Bros. International Airlines, which appears to be run by Boomerang Bros.

A Boomerang Bro, alongside a Hammer Bro, Ice Bro, and Fire Bro, make their playable debuts in the Mario Kart series in Mario Kart Tour, starting with the Hammer Bro Tour. He is classified as a Super character and his special item is the Boomerang Flower. In addition to being in the first week's spotlight, he is also obtainable as a Gold Pass tour gift after obtaining 161 Grand Stars. Starting with the Vacation Tour, Boomerang Bro also possesses his own self-named cup.

Boomerang Bros debut in the Dr. Mario series as assistants in Dr. Mario World. In stage mode, their effect is to increase the obtained score for each light-blue virus eliminated, where the base score increase is greater at higher levels. In versus mode, their effect is to instead grant a chance that an object, mainly a virus, is transformed into a shell at stage start, where the chance of it happening is greater at higher levels.

In Super Mario Party Jamboree, Boomerang Bros appear in the background of the minigame DK's Konga Line.

Boomerang Bros. are virtually identical to Hammer Bros. in appearance, featuring the same colored skin, belly plate, nose, and eyes, though with differences, such as wearing dark blue helmets, shoes, and shells. In comparison to Hammer Bros., Boomerang Bros. have maintained consistent designs more often. Official artwork of Super Mario Bros. 3 depicted Boomerang Brother with somewhat darker yellow skin than in recent games, while his shoes, shell, and helmet are black. In-game, they are depicted with light green (occasionally blue) skin and white belly plates instead, likely due to technical limitations of the Family Computer and Nintendo Entertainment System; however, all other aspects of their design are faithful to their artwork. Boomerang Brothers' sprites in Super Mario All-Stars and Super Mario Advance 4: Super Mario Bros. 3 depict them with darker green skin, as well as tanned belly plates. Yoshi's Safari depicts Boomerang Bros. with off-white belly plates, green helmets, and shells, darker yellow skin, and no shoes, while also being very large, in the vein of both Hammer Bros. and Sledge Bros.
Paper Mario: The Thousand-Year Door gave Boomerang Bros. altered designs, with them having rounder body proportions, wearing spiked armbands, and sporting black helmets, shells, and shoes, similar to Super Mario Bros. 3. From Paper Mario: Sticker Star onwards, they use their current designs, but with paper outlines around them.

Though Boomerang Bros. did not have voice acting in earlier appearances, some games like Paper Mario: The Thousand-Year Door give them text dialogue. As of Mario Super Sluggers, they have received voice acting from Motoki Takagi, who also voices Hammer Bro, Fire Bro and Ice Bro. When voiced, Boomerang Bro's speech primarily consists of grunts and yells, but sometimes includes exclamations like "NO!".

Boomerang Bros. use boomerangs as weapons in all of their appearances. In Super Mario Bros. 3, Boomerang Bros. throw multiple boomerangs at once, which can quickly return to them. In the New Super Mario Bros. games, Boomerang Bros. throw their boomerangs at slower rates, but they can curve in different directions, or travel higher. In Mario & Luigi: Superstar Saga + Bowser's Minions, Boomerang Bros.' boomerangs are shown to pierce through multiple enemies.
Like their relatives, Boomerang Bros. are shown to have high agility, especially evident in the 3D platformers. Boomerang Bros. frequently hop, to the point of hopping while idling. Boomerang Bros. are shown to jump exceptionally high, quickly traversing many areas; they often do this in conjunction with throwing their boomerangs. The Mario Baseball series portrays Boomerang Bro as a power character, making him specialize in fielding and batting, but having poor pitching skills and running speed.