Bowyer is a commander of the Smithy Gang in the game Super Mario RPG: Legend of the Seven Stars and its Switch remake. Bowyer resembles a bow, and attacks by firing his minions called Aeros at his opponents. His name comes from "bowyer", a person who makes or sells bows to be used for archery.
Bowyer was ordered by Smithy to attack Rose Town. As such, Bowyer, while at the Forest Maze, begins firing poison-tipped arrows at Rose Town. When a person is hit with an arrow, they will become paralyzed and remain frozen like statues. His Aero minions found the second Star Piece in the forest.
When Bowyer gets the Star Piece, he is confronted by a strange, blue garbed warrior named Geno. At the same time, Mario and Mallow arrive to stop Bowyer, the source of the arrows plaguing Rose Town. As a result, the three warriors team up to battle the maniacal monster.
While Bowyer's main attack is firing arrows, the monster is also a master of lightning magic. Additionally, Bowyer can disable the buttons on the player's controllers, meaning that Mario's party and Bowyer will be prevented from using regular attacks, special attacks, or items until another button is disabled.
Later, Mario, Mallow, Geno, Bowser, and Princess Peach encountered several mass-produced Bowyer copies in the Weapon World.
Bowyer can be seen in the parade during the end credits, along with Claymorton and Speardovich, in which all three are pounded by Smithy's hammer.
While having the same overall role in the remake, his boss fight was changed slightly due to the inclusion of the Triple Move mechanic. After dealing significant damage, Bowyer, realizing that he is likely going to lose against Geno, Mario, and Mallow, fires three Aeros at all the buttons, thus effectively disabling the party from attacking him or even healing. However, Geno suggests they team up with their combined might via a Triple Move, with Bowyer initially intending to respond in kind until he realizes he does not have any allies to do so. He then collapses into a heap after the Triple Move is used against him before vanishing. Additionally, Toad Assist cannot be used after Bowyer spawns the buttons.