The British Museum is a large museum in London. It appeared as a location in both versions of Mario & Sonic at the London 2012 Olympic Games and as a background landmark in Mario Kart Tour.

In the Wii version of Mario & Sonic at the London 2012 Olympic Games, the British Museum makes a small appearance as a landmark on the London Party map as well as being the image on the sticker for the 2-on-2 Shell Showdown! minigame. 
In the Nintendo 3DS version of the game, the British Museum serves a much larger role, appearing as the location for two of the Story Mode episodes.
The museum is mentioned by Rouge in The Mysterious Thief, where she claims she was visiting the museum when Dr. Eggman arrived with a fog machine and brainwashed her, and also by Jet in Enter Bowser?!, who points out that there is Phantasmal Fog there and suggests that Sonic and Tails should investigate it. Mario, Luigi, Toad, Sonic and Tails first arrive outside the British Museum in Mario and Sonic, where the group finds the purple Phantasmal Fog and share their findings, before defeating a group of imposters. Mario and Sonic then open the gates of the museum and the group head into the courtyard.
In The Secret of the Fog, the group search the courtyard for a fog machine and find Eggman Nega, who leaves after being defeated. Mario and Sonic find and destroy the fog machine, clearing the fog from the Museum, and head inside, where Tails finds out that Dr. Eggman had visited its library and borrowed a book containing information about the fog urn, which had been recently stolen from the museum. The group area approached by Espio and Charmy, who ask for their help defeating Bowser and Dr. Eggman's minions who are causing trouble around the city, and then split up before leaving the museum.

The British Museum is one of the numerous landmarks seen throughout London in the London Loop courses in Mario Kart Tour. Specifically, racers drive past the museum only in London Loop 2, and its respective variants.
London Loop returns as a classic course in Mario Kart 8 Deluxe as part of the Booster Course Pass downloadable content; as such, the British Museum returns as a landmark. This time, racers drive past the museum in the second lap of the course.