Broozers are boxing ghosts that first appear in New Super Mario Bros. Their name is a homophonic pun on "bruiser" and "boo". They are humanoids wearing a grayish-purple sheet over their body, brown shoes, and deep-red boxing gloves. In New Super Mario Bros., they have angry yellow-orange eyes with Boo-like smiles containing sharp teeth, but in every later appearance, the eyes are sunken with a green hue, and the smiles become angry scowls, bearing much larger teeth. They make sharp hissing noises as they attack, either done by them or from the tailwind of their punches.

Broozers are enemies in New Super Mario Bros.. They are encountered in World 5-Ghost House and World 5-C only. Broozers run into the direction of Mario (or Luigi), punching at anything in their way, though they can clear pathways by destroying otherwise unbreakable bricks, allowing the player character to reach otherwise inaccessible areas and Star Coins. A Broozer can be defeated from either being stomped three times or instantly from a Ground Pound, being hit from Shell Mario's shell dash maneuver, a fireball, or contact with Mega Mario. Broozers have bad tractions and can often fall into gaps in the floor by running past their target, being unable to stop. Broozers do not take notice of Mario while he is hiding in a blue shell.

Broozers are enemies in New Super Mario Bros. Wii. They are encountered in World 7-Ghost House only. They behave identically as before, though they can additionally knock over barrels, causing them to roll down stairs. They are imperative to finding a shortcut to World 7-5, as Mario must lure one to bust open a hidden, unseen door so he can take the secret exit and unlock the level. Although they can be frozen by Ice Mario, Broozers cannot be picked up afterwards.

Broozers are enemies in New Super Mario Bros. U and New Super Luigi U; in the former game, Broozers are encountered in Which-Way Labyrinth, Spinning Spirit House, and World Coin-6, while for the latter game, they appear in Broozers and Barrels only. Broozers return in all of the aforementioned levels in the Nintendo Switch version. Broozers behave identically as in New Super Mario Bros. Wii, but are shown to be capable of rotating Star Lifts in New Super Luigi U.

A Broozer appears in Super Mario-kun, where it punches a chocolate Princess Peach called "Choco Peach". The chocolate Peach is revealed to have power-ups which make Mario giant, resulting in the Broozer being crushed by Mario.

Broozers are enemies in Paper Mario: Sticker Star. Two of them appear in Bowser Jr.'s Flotilla, where they are battled alongside a Boomerang Bro, their only appearance in-game. They attack by hitting barrels into Mario, and floating up to him and punching him. After taking some damage, they will start flailing their arms around for a few turns, dealing damage to Mario if he tries to attack them directly. After winning the battle, there is a high chance that the player may earn a Barrel sticker.

Broozers are enemies in Mario & Luigi: Paper Jam. They are encountered in Neo Bowser Castle in both normal and paper forms commonly. Two Broozers are also fought alongside two Paper Broozers as one of Bowser's last lines of defense.
A Broozer's main attack is to stand in front of its target and punch them, which knocks them off-screen and unable to act (or be targeted by attacks or items) for several turns if it fails to knock the victim unconscious; if that Bro. was the only Bro. in the fight, any Bros. who got forced off-screen will instead rejoin the fight. Normally the Broozer punches immediately upon moving into position, but it can also do a fake-out and pull its punch; if its target jumps too early, its delayed punch always hits. The player can tell when a fake is coming because the Broozer swings its arm up and down as it approaches, instead of the regular arm spin. For either punch timing, the target can jump to dodge and counter.
Broozers also receive a Power boost when they are attacked, including first strikes but not counterattacks. They also share a barrel attack with their paper counterpart where they drop a barrel in front of themselves and ram into it, causing it to fly into their target, and then follow it for an arm-flailing hit. The barrel's trajectory depends on whether it is a paper barrel or not. If the barrel matches the Broozer, it must be jumped just after it is bumped. If a normal Broozer hits a paper barrel, it soars over the target's head, and so is dodged by not jumping. Either way, the Broozer itself must be jumped over to complete the dodge and counter.

Broozers appear again exclusively in Minion Quest: The Search for Bowser in Mario & Luigi: Superstar Saga + Bowser's Minions, where they are classified as Boo minions. They fight against and alongside Captain Goomba on his journey to rescue his king. They are strong against Bob-ombs, Mechakoopas, and Mecha-Fawfuls. They are found in the levels Power Play, Return of the Koopa Cruiser, Chain Chomp and Spike Stomp, Rumble in the Castle! and The Mightiest Minions. Their Special Skill is Air Bash.

In Mario & Luigi: Bowser's Inside Story + Bowser Jr.'s Journey, Broozers make an appearance in the Bowser Jr.'s Journey mode, where they are enemies and recruitable allies. They are strong against Bob-ombs, Alarm Bob-ombs, King Bob-omb, and Mechakoopas.

Broozers are non-playable characters in Super Mario Party. They are the focus of the Croozin' for a Broozin' minigame, where the goal is to outrun a group of them. Artwork of a Broozer can also appear in Absent Minded, as one of the characters that can be chosen. They appear to glow in dimly lit areas. Some Broozers appear in the background of Challenge Road to indicate one of the upcoming minigames will be Croozin' for a Broozin', and are seen chasing a scared Toad.

In Super Mario Party Jamboree, a giant, mechanical Broozer appears in the Broozer Bash minigame. A Broozer also appear on Roll 'em Raceway, chasing the player in a purple monster truck when they land on the Event Space on the upper star path.

Broozers are assistants in Dr. Mario World. They have a chance to transform viruses into pop cannons at stage start: one in stage mode and two in versus mode. The chance to do so is greater at higher levels, where it is 20% at the first level and 100% at the maximum level. They also appear in the background of World 20 alongside Boos when an area is cleared of viruses. A Broozer is rewarded to the player when they cleared the first area of World 20.