Bros. Attacks are special methods of attacking, which require Mario and Luigi to work together. These moves are used in most of the games in the Mario & Luigi series, with the exception of Mario & Luigi: Partners in Time. "Bros. Attacks" is pronouced "Brothers Attacks". A Bros. Attack challenges the player to successfully perform Action Commands as the animation progresses. Missing inputs may cause the  attack to deal less damage, conclude early without dealing the maximum number of hits, or prevent it from doing any damage as the Bros. mess up. Mario & Luigi: Superstar Saga only used each brother's button, those being  and , for the Action Commands, but later games implement Action Commands involving directional inputs. They also become more minigame like, with inputs required to make the characters move at all instead of just accentuating an animation. Mario & Luigi: Dream Team implements gyroscope based controls for three Bros. Attacks. Later games have endurance modes where the player has to keep successfully performing a Bros. Attack until they reach a maximum score, with the challenge being lost if the player makes too many mistakes.
Bros. Attacks can only be performed while both brothers are able to act. This includes any case where one brother is KO'd, but also instances where one brother has a status effect like Trip or Burn. Some status effects on one brother, like Tiny, prevent Bros. Attacks but do not restrict other actions.

In Mario & Luigi: Superstar Saga, Mario and Luigi learn eight Bros. Attacks during the adventure, four for each brother; the required moves are based off their Bros. Actions in the field, ex. the Bounce Bros. attack, which is based off of the High Jump action, and are obtained at the same time. In addition, there are two secret Bros. Attacks that they can learn by acquiring the two Secret Scrolls in the Hammerhead Bros.' caverns in eastern Beanbean Outskirts. A very small selection of enemies can use attacks similar to Bros. Attacks, such as the bosses Popple and Rookie in their second battle.
Bros. Attacks use up Mario and Luigi's Bros. Points, or BP. Each Bros. attack costs three to eight Bros. Points, which can be replenished with Syrup Jars, other BP restorative items (like Golden Mushrooms), and/or certain badges.
To perform Bros. Attacks, buttons must be pressed in the right order, at the right time. If a button is missed, the attack will do far less damage, possibly even less than a regular Jump or Hammer attack. Each Bros. Attack also has three Modes: 1, 2, and 3. Mode 1 is the most basic; the game goes into slow motion when buttons need to be pressed, to give the player ample time to press the correct buttons. In addition, button icons that show which button needs to be pressed are clearly displayed. In Mode 2, slow-motion is taken out, but the button icons remain. Mode 3 has no slow-motion, or button icons, but Bros. Attacks performed in Mode 3 are more powerful and cost less BP than those performed in the other Modes.
After executing a Bros. Attack successfully (i.e. pressing all of the buttons correctly) a certain number of times, Advanced Commands are learned. Advanced Bros. Attacks are generally harder to perform than regular ones, but Advanced attacks often have added bonuses such as stealing items, inflicting status ailments, or simply doing more damage to the boss or enemy.
In Mario & Luigi: Superstar Saga + Bowser's Minions, Modes 1, 2, and 3 no longer exist for the Bros. Attacks, instead they are replaced by "Normal" or "Easy" difficulty, with the Easy difficulty being more lenient in timing but with the downside of costing more BP to perform. The slowed down pace of Mode 1 is also removed. Additionally, all battle backgrounds now scroll whenever Mario or Luigi use a Bros. Attack. The "Advanced" Bros. Attacks have been given their own separate category of "Super Bros. Attacks". Even if the Bros. fail to obtain an "Excellent!" rating for the original attacks, it still counts towards the number of times that the move is performed, meaning that there is no penalty for failing to perform the attack properly. Furthermore, the Bros. have a chance to practice their Bros. attacks if they lack knowledge on proper timing during "Practice" mode or watch a "Demo" of the attacks in order to learn how to perform them properly, both of which are accessed during combat. Some attacks, such as Swing Bros., have had their inputs changed.

The concept of Bros. Attacks was replaced with Bros. Items in the sequel, Mario & Luigi: Partners in Time, which are disposable attacks that can be bought from shops or found in ? Blocks. However, one Bros. Attack does make an appearance. The Hammer Bros. in the game use Knockback Bros. as an attack.

In Mario & Luigi: Bowser's Inside Story, Bros. Attacks are referred to as Special Attacks and they use up Special Points. Unlike in Mario & Luigi: Superstar Saga. Instead of gaining new attacks through learning new Bros. Actions, all Special Attacks are unlocked through collecting ten Attack Pieces in a given area. Attack Pieces can be obtained either by hitting Attack Piece Blocks or by completing certain quests to obtain all ten pieces at a time. All Bros. Attacks can be activated by both Mario and Luigi, and Advanced Commands are completely omitted.
In the remake, Mario & Luigi: Bowser's Inside Story + Bowser Jr.'s Journey, "Special Attacks" and "Special Points" are renamed back to "Bros. Attacks" and "Bros. Points," respectively. Just like in Mario & Luigi: Superstar Saga + Bowser's Minions, the "Easy" difficulty mode for Special Attacks can be toggled on or off in the remake using , which makes the timing of button presses for the attacks much more lenient, but at the cost of more Bros. Points being used up.

Bros. Attacks return in Mario & Luigi: Dream Team, and can be used in battles in the Real World. Mario and Luigi have five Bros. Attacks each, making a total of 10. They are unlocked by collecting 10 Attack Pieces in various places in the Real World for each attack, similar to how Special Attacks are unlocked in the preceding game. In the Dream World, Luiginary Attacks are used instead of Bros. Attacks, which are unlocked in the same way as Bros. Attacks in the Real World.
In this game, Bros. Attacks and Luiginary Attacks are designated as dealing damage with either the boots or the hammers, or neither of them. This is because Mario and Luigi can equip boots and hammer gear which specifically apply their Power boost and special effect when the player uses attacks corresponding to the item. Some Bros. Attacks and Luiginary Attacks use neither gear, like Slingsniper. Certain Bros. Attacks and Luiginary Attacks, such as Fire Flower, inflict damage with fire. Attacks with fire never use boots or hammers.
Missing or failing Bros. Attacks or Luiginary Attacks enough times provides the player with the option to enable "Slow Attack" for that move, toggling on and off with  while in the menu. The attack failing because the enemy is immune counts. In Slow Attack, the game slows down when a button press is required, making the inputs easier to perform. However, the attack deals less damage. If the attack is used outside of Slow Attack enough times, the option will be disabled until the condition is met again.
The Guide menu allows the player to watch a demo of each Bros. Attack or Luiginary Attack used on dummy enemies. The demo always demonstrates an Excellent attack, and the dummy enemies respawn so it can repeat. Depending on the attack, a different number of enemies appear. The player can choose to practice that attack with those enemies, with the enemies being replaced after each attack even if any of them survive. Each session tracks the number of Excellent attacks performed in a row, resetting on a non-Excellent attack and when the player quits.
The Mad Skillathon serves as an endurance mode for Bros. Attacks, though three attacks are excluded. In it, the player is tasked earn 999 points in each game through perfect use of the specified attack. They often have modified mechanics compared to the version seen in battles. Luiginary Attacks have an equivalent mode in Battle Broque Madame.
Four Bros. Attacks are also available for Dreamy Luigi in Giant Battles. Giant Luigi does not have BP, so attacks do not require it. Instead, using Bros. Attacks exhausts Mario, meaning a Bros. Attack cannot be used again until Mario recovers. Additionally, some opponents can knock Mario off Giant Luigi, which prevents Bros. Attacks from being used until he returns. Two Bros. Attacks are special finishing moves, only used to conclude the boss battle. These moves are exempt from this mechanic, with Mario always recovering or returning just before they are used. Slow Attack is not available in these battles. Giant Luigi is not affected by gear, so there is no distinction between boots and hammers. None of Giant Luigi's Bros. Attacks involve hammers though.

Bros. Attacks return for the fourth time in Mario & Luigi: Paper Jam, where like in Mario & Luigi: Dream Team, Mario and Luigi have five Bros. Attacks each. When the player uses a Bros. Attack, Mario and Luigi will execute the attack while Paper Mario cheers for the duo; as a result Bros. Attacks can even be used if Paper Mario is knocked out or absent entirely. Paper Mario instead has the option to use Trio Attacks that work similarly to Bros. Attacks; but require Mario, Luigi, and Paper Mario to cooperate with each other. Unlike in Mario & Luigi: Bowser's Inside Story and Mario & Luigi: Dream Team, Bros. Attacks are not gained by collecting Attack Pieces; they are instead gained by getting them back from Nabbit who stole them at the beginning of the game, with the exception of Toad Trail which is obtained after defeating King Bob-omb at the top of Mount Brrr and after gaining access to Neo Bowser Castle.

* - Required for the game.

* - Mandatory Bros. Attacks.