Builder Mario is the identity Mario assumes in Super Mario Maker to reflect the game's level-building mechanic. The Builder outfit itself later appears in games like Super Smash Bros. Ultimate and the Mario Kart series where it serves as a cosmetic variant of Mario and other characters, while Super Mario Maker 2 introduces it as a powered-up form of Mario as well as Luigi, Toad and Toadette.

Builder Mario first appears in Super Mario Maker and Super Mario Maker for Nintendo 3DS, most prominently in related artwork and promotional material. In Super Mario Maker only, Builder Mario is one of the many unlockable Mystery Mushroom costumes, unlocked after clearing Gnat Attack for the first time. Upon transforming into Builder Mario, the title shout before the title screen can be heard; if the player clears the course as Builder Mario, the music heard when starting up the game plays. If the player loses a life as Builder Mario, the Game Over theme from Gnat Attack plays. When the player presses , Builder Mario raises his hammer for his pose.

In Super Mario Odyssey, a cap and outfit based on Builder Mario's attire (named the Builder Helmet and the Builder Outfit respectively) can be purchased from the Crazy Cap store in the Metro Kingdom using regional coins.

In Super Mario Maker 2, Mario, Luigi, Toad or Toadette can take a Builder form by collecting a Super Hammer, a power-up found exclusively in the Super Mario 3D World style. It adds a tool belt and a hardhat, and, in Mario and Luigi's case, changes their attire to yellow shirts and colored overalls. Builder Toadette also resembles her appearance as the Chief in Story Mode, albeit with a yellow helmet instead of pink. It grants Mario and co. the ability to swing a large hammer to slam the environment and enemies alike. Unlike Hammer Mario, where the hammers are arched projectiles, Builder Mario uses them as a melee weapon, similar to the hammer attacks in the Paper Mario series and the Mario & Luigi series. Builder Mario can also create a maximum of five Builder Boxes at a time to be used as platforms.

In Mario & Luigi: Superstar Saga + Bowser's Minions, Builder Mario's helmet can be seen inside the Mario Bros.' House.

In Super Smash Bros. Ultimate, Builder Mario appears as an alternate costume of Mario. Additionally, he appears as a fighter spirit that can be purchased from the Vault Shop.

Builder Mario, Builder Toad, Builder Luigi, and Builder Toadette appear in Mario Kart Tour as drivers. Builder Mario and Builder Toad debuted in the 2020 Trick Tour, to coincide with the release of the final major update for Super Mario Maker 2, Builder Luigi debuted in the 2020 Mario vs. Luigi Tour, and Builder Toadette debuted in the 2021 Trick Tour. Builder Mario, Builder Luigi, and Builder Toadette's special skill is the Hammer, while Builder Toad's is the Bob-omb Cannon.
Builder Toadette is the only Builder form to not have a unique emblem, as well as the only one with brand new artwork instead of reused artwork from Super Mario Maker 2. Builder Mario and Luigi have yellow backgrounds instead of white and Builder Toad has blue spots on his cap instead of red spots.
For a list of ways in which these drivers have been obtainable throughout the game's history, see List of availabilities for Builder drivers in Mario Kart Tour.

The Builder Outfit appears in Mario Kart Live: Home Circuit as an unlockable costume for both Mario and Luigi.

In The Super Mario Bros. Movie, Builder Toads can be seen when Toad and Mario travel across lifts while in the Mushroom Kingdom.

In the opening of the Mario vs. Donkey Kong remake on the Nintendo Switch, Builder Toads are seen working at the Mario Toy Company.

Using the Dash button will make Mario execute a melee attack with his hammer, having a range of about 1 block in front of him and 2 blocks high. This attack is able to destroy Hard Blocks and Thwomps, and can even defeat Boos and Peepas; 7 hits with this attack will defeat Meowser, compared to 20 with Fire Mario's fireballs and Cat Mario's scratch attack. However, the attack is ineffective against Big Ant Troopers. If the attack is too close to an unbreakable object, such as ground, Mario will bounce back once the attack hits it.
When the player holds up, Mario will appear to hold his breath, signaling that he is now able to create a Builder Box. Using the Dash button while holding up will create a Builder Box. Up to 5 Builder Boxes can be made at a time, after which the boxes will disappear as new boxes are created. Builder Boxes are similar to Crates, but they have the player character's emblem on it.
In multiplayer mode, the hammer can be used to knock back other players and steal Keys or a Clear Condition. The boxes can also be used to block pipes from being exited.