Cactuses (or cacti) have occasionally appeared in interactive capacities in the Super Mario franchise, often damaging player characters on contact. From Super Mario 3D Land onward, cactuses have been strikable in the 3D Super Mario platform games and release a coin if hit indirectly. They have otherwise appeared as decorative background elements in desert-themed levels.
Cactuses are the basis for Pokeys and related enemies. Tall cactuses in many games have branching arms and most closely resemble the saguaro, while stout, round ones bear flowers and resemble ball cactuses.

Tall cactuses in Super Mario Bros. 2 are platforms in desert stages. Compared to most of the other platforms in the game, they often appear in large groups, with the player needing to go over each. Pokeys can travel through them, making them a slight obstacle.

Cactuses in Super Mario Galaxy 2 are obstacles in the Slipsand Galaxy mission "Sailing the Sandy Seas," where they temporarily destroy pieces of the Sand Bird on contacts, creating gaps, although direct contact with the cactuses does not damage the player character.

Cactuses in Super Mario Odyssey are obstacles in the Sand Kingdom. If Mario touches one, he loses one health point. Some of the thorns will briefly stick to his body and his nose becomes orange as well. Cacti defeat Goombas on contact. Cactuses come in two sizes, a tall one and a small round one. Small cactuses can be launched in a small arc with a Cap Throw, falling apart when they collide with the ground. These cactuses can cause a chain reaction, with the first colliding with a second which collides with a third and so on. The sound cue for this gradually increases in pitch, and the fourth cactus destroyed releases a circle of Coins. Larger cactuses just repel the attack. Moe-Eye are immune to cactuses, and kick away the small variety when they collide. This continues to be true if Mario captures a Moe-Eye. Jaxi can destroy both versions by being ridden into them, sending the cactus in a longer arc as it does so.
One tall cactus with a green pin sticking out of it can be captured and moved in order to reveal a glowing spot that Mario can ground-pound to reveal the "Wandering Cactus" Power Moon. As this cactus moves farther from its origin, it moves more slowly. At the maximum distance, Mario is forced out and the pin vanishes, so it cannot be captured again until the area is reloaded. Jaxi is unable to destroy this cactus. Another tall cactus is glowing. It is accompanied by four small cactuses. When the glowing cactus is destroyed by Jaxi, it reveals the "Among the Five Cactuses" Power Moon.
Hariet, a boss fought in the Sand Kingdom, throws bombs that resemble the small cacti. This prompts using the Cap Throw to knock them away, or back into her.

Cactuses in Mario Kart 64 are stationary objects in Kalimari Desert that block players, similarly to trees. They return in the course's reappearances in Mario Kart 7, Mario Kart Tour and Mario Kart 8 Deluxe. In Mario Kart: Super Circuit, cactuses appear in Sunset Wilds, that returns in Mario Kart Tour, and Yoshi Desert. In Mario Kart: Double Dash!!, cactuses appear in the same capacity in Dry Dry Desert, returning in the course's reappearance in Mario Kart 8. In Mario Kart Wii, they appear with the same purpose in Dry Dry Ruins and Thwomp Desert. In Mario Kart 7, the Cact-X is designed after a cactus; it returns in Mario Kart Tour along with variants called the Cact-Ice, Cact-R, and Cact-B.

Cactuses in Paper Mario appear in Dry Dry Desert, where some resemble Pokeys in shape, and both a blue one and a stone one are used for navigation.

Cactuses in Paper Mario: Sticker Star are interactive objects in World 2, and attacking them with the hammer repeatedly causes their flowers to bloom and release coins.

Cactuses in Mario Party 3 appear on a shortcut in Spiny Desert, where there are only two of them, and properly using the path requires the player character to jump over them, else they leap with pain to a corresponding sign elsewhere on the board. Hitting the first cactus takes them significantly before the shortcut's beginning, and hitting the second cactus (which has eyelashes and a flower crown) takes them slightly after the shortcut's end. As such, it can be useful to hit one depending on where the player needs to go.

Cactuses in Mario Pinball Land appear in the Shifting Sands Stage, where hitting one awards 100 points but knocks Mario back a distance.

Cactuses in Mario & Luigi: Partners in Time appear in Gritzy Desert, functioning mainly as walls, and there is a small maze of them in the northeast section. Shrooba Divers use small round cactuses as projectiles in battle.

Cactuses in Mario & Luigi: Paper Jam resemble Pokeys, block roads, and must be knocked away with hammer whacks, with taller ones requiring the Trio Hammer to get rid of every segment before they grow back. They appear only in Doop Doop Dunes.

Cactuses in New Play Control! Donkey Kong Jungle Beat are common obstacles, usually stacked on top of each other to function as barricades, and can be knocked away usually with the Sound Wave Attack. Cactuses in the game first appear in Dawn Savanna. All versions of the game feature a level inside a giant cactus, called Cactus Mine.

Cactuses in Donkey Kong Country Returns and its Nintendo 3DS version are item containers in the Cave and Cliff area, with the former area having them with a somewhat fungal appearance.

Cactuses in Mario Golf: Super Rush appear in Balmy Dunes on holes 16–18, while smaller ones appear in Spiky Palms. Cactuses are interacted with identically to trees and will hurt the ball's lie upon collision.

Cactuses in The Super Mario Bros. Movie can be seen briefly as Mario, Peach, and Toad travel through the Desert Area. The Cactuses use their appearance from Super Mario Odyssey.