Cappy is a major character in Super Mario Odyssey. He is Mario's main ally throughout the game and assists him in various ways. Along with his little sister Tiara, Cappy is a Bonneter originally from the Cap Kingdom and joins Mario to rescue her after she is kidnapped by Bowser.
Cappy has the ability to capture enemies and other creatures and objects, allowing Mario to control them and use their abilities. He can also change form to match the outfit and headwear chosen.

Cappy's final design was colored white as he was meant to transform into various hats, and white was deemed a color able to fit all the different colors of the hats.  Furthermore, his eyes while smiling were made to resemble the "M" of Mario's cap.

Although Super Mario Odyssey is the first game in which Cappy is physically present, he technically debuted in Super Mario Run via a cameo. To promote Super Mario Odyssey's appearance at E3 2017, a statue of Cappy in the form of the Mario Cap was made available as one of the objects in Kingdom Builder on June 14, 2017 and costs 2,000 coins. When tapped after it is placed on the field, it changes to his original top hat form for a few seconds, while his voice can be heard exclaiming, "Cappy!" Transforming back to normal also counts as tapping the statue.
This statue, along with the other Super Mario Odyssey-related items, was made available normally through the Remix 10 mode as of the version 3.0.4 update for the game. It can be obtained from the Bonus Game at the end of each 10-course interval and the Super Bonus Game, which can be accessed by collecting enough Bonus Medals while playing.

Cappy's proper debut occurs in Super Mario Odyssey, where he is Mario's main partner throughout the game. Cappy joins Mario to rescue his little sister Tiara, who had been kidnapped by Bowser along with Princess Peach. He is "energetic but a bit timid." For the entire game, Cappy substitutes for the Mario Cap, since it was torn up in the the opening cutscene. Cappy generally appears as the regular hat, but his eyes appear in certain animations. Cappy returns to his normal top hat state in cutscenes or in idle animations in the Odyssey. Cappy is controlled by the second player while playing in two player mode. In two player mode, unless the player is in certain scripted sequences like talking to other characters, Cappy floats above Mario's head with his eyes visible. 
Together, Mario and Cappy operate the Odyssey, a flying ship that takes them between kingdoms. 
Cappy uses his shape changing powers to take the form of any hat the player obtains. He is also able to transform into new designs, which happens twice during the game. He becomes a Captain's Hat after they use the Odyssey for the first time.
Mario can throw Cappy in various ways to have him attack or interact with items; the standard throw is directly forward followed by a return, and there are multiple other variations. Cappy can also be held in place once thrown to strike blocks repeatedly. Throwing Cappy in the air gives Mario a vertical boost while canceling horizontal momentum, allowing Mario to adjust his trajectory. Mario can bounce off Cappy once per jump, significantly extending Mario's jumping reach. In all cases, Cappy's eyes are visible while he is being thrown or interacting with other items.
When thrown at certain enemies or objects, Cappy captures them, allowing Mario to control them to get across stages. Cappy can also interact with the environment. For example, he can pull levers, pull out posts, destroy some objects, and remove pools of posion. Cappy can collect items when thrown, such as coins and hearts. Exceptions include Power Moons and keys. In addition to Coin Blocks, Cappy can also collect items from certain environmental objects, such as bushes. In two player mode, Cappy can fly freely near Mario, and can jump and Ground Pound independently of him. He can only fly in a certain radius around Mario, and generally tries to match his elevation when not jumping or ground pounding. If Cappy is outside these bounds, the game moves him to try and stay within the radius. 
In the game's 8-bit sections, Cappy usually has no role as the Cap Throw cannot be used. However, in two player mode Cappy can help Mario by allowing him to float for about one second. This only applies once per jump but resets upon stomping an enemy. Cappy's eyes are visible as he takes this action.
Cappy can warp Mario to any Checkpoint Flag they have activated. The Odyssey has a Checkpoint Flag on it, so Cappy can warp to the Odyssey as well. This can be done only while Mario is grounded, and is not able to be done during certain minigames.
Certain situations separate Cappy from Mario, preventing Mario from doing actions involving Cappy. Most commonly, scarecrows are activated by having Cappy spin on their head, opening access to a situation that must be done without Cappy's help. In the Lost Kingdom, Klepto steals Cappy from Mario until he is defeated. Cappy is required to operate the Odyssey, as throwing him onto the globe is what starts the powering up cutscene and what takes the player into the menu to pick a destination. As such, Cappy must be rescued before the player can leave the Lost Kingdom.
Cappy also informs the player of various details of the game and the surrounding world. Before they arrive at each new kingdom, he reads out details from the brochure. While grounded, Cappy has a large number of possible lines. These range from reactions to story events, explaining gameplay features such as regional coins that can only be used in one kingdom, and advice if the player is stuck. Cappy informs the player of if a bonus area has any Power Moons or regional coins left. (He even does this in cases where he is outside the area due to a Scarecrow.) He cheers every time Mario damages a boss. Cappy has a number of lines where he is impressed at Mario's skill, dependent on the player accomplishing something suitably impressive such as locate a well hidden Power Moon or reach certain areas in unconventional ways. Cappy keeps Mario from moving through area transitions and 8-bit pipes during certain minigames. Even though Cappy changes shape, his dialogue box always reflects his base appearance.

Cappy appears in Super Smash Bros. Ultimate as the Mario Cap, Mario's Top Hat and Builder Helmet, appearing during some moves and a taunt alongside Mario. However, he does not have any effect on Mario's moveset. He also appears in his Bonneter form as a support spirit, which slightly increases the power of grabs and throws when equipped. Cappy's spirit can be summoned using Ezlo's core and Boo Mario's core, a reference to Cappy sharing a similar hat-based and ghostly appearance with Ezlo and Boo Mario, respectively. Cappy also appears in Mario Cap form as a hat that can be worn by Mii Fighters, which can be unlocked through a challenge.

In Nintendo Sound Clock: Alarmo, Cappy appears in his Mario Cap form while Mario is resting during bedtime.

A headgear item based off Cappy was released in Animal Crossing: Pocket Camp on October 27, 2018 to celebrate the first anniversary of Super Mario Odyssey.

Cappy's normal form is a white top hat with blue wisps of hair and large eyes with red irises. Under the hat is his main body, which somewhat resembles an Eerie. When transformed into different hats, such as the Mario Cap, Cappy's eyes appear on the hat. Cappy also comes in a variety of outfits, which can be purchased from the kingdoms' Crazy Cap stores, including a chef hat, top hat, builder hat, and a fedora. Cappy always takes the form of the Mario Cap when capturing an enemy or object. In Super Smash Bros. Ultimate, Cappy gains a subdued color scheme and simple detailing.

Cappy is a helpful, friendly, selfless, confident, and heroic character who is always there for those he cares about. However, he is a little timid and easily startled at times. Despite this, after joining with Mario, he is very bold and never backs down from a fight, such if the player chooses to leave the Wedding Hall before rescuing Peach and Tiara. When Tiara is captured, he immediately chooses to join Mario and assist him in his journey. He is also talkative, frequently giving Mario advice and checking out interesting aspects of other kingdoms.
While in the Darker Side, he is shown to be grateful to Mario for his journey when they climb the replica of the New Donk City Hall to reach the last Multi Moon on its top.