Capture the ghost! is the fifth and final story of an additional chapter five in the game Wario Land II. It takes place in a haunted mansion.
Wario and the player have to face the hardships of the mansion once again. There are some blocks in the level that change position when a switch is hit, just like in the previous levels. To end the level successfully, the player has to battle the ghost.

The hidden treasure of this stage can be reached from the second area, the room with the many movable blocks. On the left of the lower half of the room is a door that leads to another room. To get to this door, the player has to hit the switch behind another door, climb down the stairs, hit another switch and travel to the left. If the player enters the door Wario will be in another big room. The player should move the stove in this room as far to the left as possible, so they can use it as a stepping stone to reach another switch. Some blocks will then change position, allowing the stove to be moved further to the left, where it can be used to reach the treasure door.

When Wario enters the boss door, he will witness Captain Syrup getting captured by the ghost, so Wario has to fight it in order to get his treasure back. Attacking the ghost is difficult because it hardly leaves itself open. The player has a short chance of hitting it with a ramming attack as soon as it swoops down for an attack. However, the player should be careful about not having Wario get grabbed or else the battle will start over. After a hit, the ghost changes the pattern of its swoop attacks and will be even more unpredictable. After four well-timed hits, the ghost will be defeated and the battle is won.
Wario will catch up with Syrup and the Black Sugar Gang after the battle and get his riches back. However, a trapdoor opens underneath him, and Wario falls down into a pit. He will then wake up after falling out of his bed at home. The screen switches to a viewpoint outside of his castle for the credits, showing that the pirates are arriving at Wario Castle.