Captain Toad, originally known as the Toad Brigade Captain or Toad Captain, is a character who first appears in Super Mario Galaxy. He is a red Toad with an oversized backpack and a headlamp, the former preventing him from being able to jump. He is the leader of the Toad Brigade, a group of Toads that provides help to Mario in Super Mario Galaxy and its sequel. He subsequently appears in Super Mario 3D World and its Nintendo Switch port Super Mario 3D World + Bowser's Fury as a playable character in special levels known as Captain Toad's Adventures, which inspired the game Captain Toad: Treasure Tracker, of which Captain Toad is the main protagonist.

The Toad Brigade Captain debuts as the self-proclaimed captain of the Toad Brigade in Super Mario Galaxy. He appears to be one of the few characters that escaped the destruction of the Mushroom Kingdom, along with the Toad Brigade members and Luigi. The Toads lost Luigi in space, and instead found themselves in the Honeyhive Galaxy. Mario eventually finds the Toads and rescues them. He rewards Mario with the first Power Star of that galaxy.
The Toad Brigade Captain can sometimes find Power Stars for Mario. In order to follow Mario, he uses a special spaceship called the Starshroom to provide him and his brigade with transportation while traveling through the galaxies. When Mario reaches the Grand Finale Galaxy, the Toad Brigade Captain is appointed as Royal Guard Commander. If Mario is Bee Mario, the Toad Brigade Captain becomes frightened at first, though quickly recognizes him.  His headlamp can be used to defeat Boos by shining his headlamp at them. 

The Toad Brigade Captain reappears in Super Mario Galaxy 2. He first appears in the mission "Digga-Leg's Planet", where he warns Mario about the "scary monster", Digga-Leg.  They use their Starshroom to follow Starship Mario around the galaxies. Originally, the Toad Brigade wanted to save Princess Peach by themselves, but after finding Mario and deciding that he would do the job better, the Toad Brigade decides to assist Mario instead. In the Slimy Spring Galaxy mission "The Deep Shell Well", the Toad Brigade Captain manages to obtain the star before Mario arrives. However, he accidentally falls inside a chest that locks him inside. When Mario opens up the chest, the Toad Brigade Captain pops out and gives him the star, asking Mario not to tell the other Toad Brigade members of this event. In the ending of the game, he and his brigade accompany Mario back to their planet to celebrate his victory over Bowser. He can sometimes be seen daydreaming in various areas about resting up instead of adventuring. 

Captain Toad reappears under his current name and design in Super Mario 3D World and its Nintendo Switch port, Super Mario 3D World + Bowser's Fury. He is seen in some courses throughout the game, known as Captain Toad's Adventures. These courses are composed of puzzle-based stages, where the goal is to obtain all five Green Stars using Captain Toad, who is the only playable character. Aside from walking, he is not able to perform any special moves, even jumping. Instead, the player must rely on the different elements and obstacles within the course to progress, such as timed platforms which propel Captain Toad into the air instead of jumping. His headlamp can still defeat Boos and other ghost-like enemies, but instead of defeating them instantly, he will defeat them after stunning them. In the original game, the player uses the Wii U GamePad to move Captain Toad around the stage. He starts in his Super form, and will shrink if he is damaged (his cap and spots will also switch colors). The music that plays in most of these levels is an extended variation of his theme in Super Mario Galaxy. In the Nintendo Switch port, the Toad Brigade members will act as the other playable characters in the multiplayer mode of Captain Toad's Adventures. They have the same powers as Captain Toad.
Captain Toad also makes cameos in some of the normal courses of the game as a non-playable character, usually in danger. If the player rescues him, Captain Toad will award a Green Star. He also appears as the conductor of the Coin Express train of World 5. In Tricky Trapeze Theater, he is seen in a hidden area after a trapeze and a Clear Pipe by a Roulette Block. His last appearance is at the end of Champion's Road, where he can be seen cheering in the crowd.
Captain Toad makes a minor appearance in the Bowser's Fury mode of Super Mario 3D World + Bowser's Fury. After defeating Giant Bowser and viewing the credits for the first time, Captain Toad can be found on a small island near Scamper Shores where he is being chased in a circle by some Cat Biddybuds, similar to his appearance in Sunshine Seaside from the main game. After Mario defeats them, Captain Toad rewards him with a Cat Shine and remains on Fur Step Island with Toadette and the rest of the Toad Brigade for the rest of the game.

While Captain Toad himself does not make an actual appearance in Super Mario Maker, a Captain Toad costume came out on December 25, 2015, unlocked via completing the Event Course Captain Toad: Treasure Tracker. Though Captain Toad is able to jump here, this level is created so that it can be completed without jumping. Also, the Toad amiibo allows Mario to gain a costume akin to the Pixel Toad sprite from Captain Toad: Treasure Tracker. Additionally, when Mario rescues a Toad while wearing the Toad costume, the Toad will say "Ah, Captain! It's terrible! Princess Peach has been taken to another castle!" likely referencing Captain Toad.

Captain Toad makes a reappearance in Super Mario Odyssey, now wearing the same outfit as in Super Mario 3D World and Captain Toad: Treasure Tracker. In this game, he is a non-playable character. He appears in most kingdoms in an often difficult-to-reach location. When Mario finds and speaks to him, he hands over a Power Moon he had found while exploring that kingdom. Like other non-playable characters, he gets scared and will not be able to talk to Mario if he is approached by the protagonist while he is capturing an enemy. The music heard when Captain Toad is talking to Mario is the same as the one heard in Super Mario Galaxy.
To commemorate Captain Toad: Treasure Tracker's release on the Nintendo Switch and Nintendo 3DS, Pixel Captain Toads could also be found through all released extra Hint Art in his sprite form from Super Mario Maker, which replaced the usual Pixel Luigis until August 8, 2018. Even after the event ended, Pixel Captain Toads can still be found in Snow Kingdom and Ruined Kingdom.

Although he does not physically appear in Super Mario Maker 2, it is strongly implied Captain Toad is Legendary Explorer in the game's story mode. Legendary Explorer's courses are heavily adventure-based, and require little jumping to complete (e.g. Fire Koopa Clown Carnage). In the same course's description, Legendary Explorer mentions "having to do the laundry" as an excuse not to go on the "grand expedition"; in Boo-ring Course's description, he mentions "attempting to recreate a star he found a long time ago." Unlike other course creators who are implied to be Super Mario characters, Legendary Explorer does not use the same speech pattern as Captain Toad himself in the Japanese version.

Captain Toad makes his physical debut in a 2D game in Super Mario Bros. Wonder. Like in Super Mario Odyssey, he is found in hidden areas of the world, rewarding the player with 50 flower coins for speaking with him. Regardless of which playable character interacts with Captain Toad upon his first encounter, he does not recognize them and remarks that this is their first time meeting. 
Captain Toad appears in five separate locations, all of which are isolated from the rest of the world map, and can only be accessed through warp pipes; three are located in Pipe-Rock Plateau, and two in Sunbaked Desert. By entering the pipes in World 1, Captain Toad can be found in the Petal Isles (high above the entrance to World 6), on a vista overlooking Fluff-Puff Peaks, and a cavern above the palace in Deep Magma Bog. From the pipes in World 4, he is met behind a waterfall on the right side of Shining Falls, and on a remote island in Fungi Mines.

Captain Toad is featured in the respective volumes of the Super Mario-kun manga that cover the stories of Super Mario Galaxy, Super Mario 3D World, and Captain Toad: Treasure Tracker. While Captain Toad's design remains the same as his in-game one in most of his appearances, in volume 49 he is drawn with a toothbrush mustache.

In Captain Toad: Treasure Tracker and its Nintendo Switch and Nintendo 3DS enhanced port, Captain Toad is the primary protagonist. He can now defend himself by using power-ups, wield weapons such as the Super Pickax, and pick turnips from the ground to attack enemies. However, like in Super Mario 3D World, Captain Toad cannot jump in this game.
In Episode 1, Captain Toad's journey begins when Toadette shows him a Power Star she found on the top of a level. However, a large bird known as Wingo swoops down and claims the Power Star for itself. Captain Toad falls backwards, however Toadette is  kidnapped by Wingo after she latches onto the Power Star in an attempt to get it back. Determined to get Toadette and their treasure back, Captain Toad heads off through many puzzle-like stages to reach the top of Wingo's Watchtower where Wingo holds Toadette hostage.
Ultimately, Captain Toad finds Wingo at the top of a tower. There, Captain Toad battles Wingo and defeats the bird via the use of giant turnips. Toadette and the original Power Star are saved, which causes the two Toads to celebrate in their victory.

In Episode 2, Toadette finds another Power Star and leads Captain Toad to it; however, much like before, Wingo returns and kidnaps Captain Toad along with the Power Star. Toadette now heads towards her next adventure to save Captain Toad. Upon trying to save Captain Toad at Battle Tower Blitz, their reunion is short-lived as the Captain is knocked far away from the scene while Toadette is recaptured by Wingo. Sometime later, Captain Toad regains consciousness in a dark cavern and attempts to retrieve a lost Power Star within the level. However, Wingo reappears and steals the Power Star right before him and taunts Captain Toad with both the treasure and Toadette before flying off again. 
After this, Captain Toad finally makes it back to the tower where Wingo resides and makes his way to the very top to defeat him. Upon declaring victory by throwing a giant turnip into Wingo's mouth and ultimately causing Wingo to fall from the air once more, Toadette is finally free and the stolen Power Star is retrieved. Captain Toad and Toadette get on a minecart during the staff roll of the game.

Upon the end of the minecart trip, Captain Toad notices a Green Star falling from the sky and immediately chases after it much to Toadette's dismay. He then falls into a Clear Pipe leading to the Sprixie Kingdom, which begins his adventures in Super Mario 3D World. In the Nintendo Switch and Nintendo 3DS versions, the cutscene is altered where he instead notices the Odyssey traveling overhead, thus beginning his adventures in Super Mario Odyssey.
Much like in Super Mario 3D World, Captain Toad's cap colors become inverted upon taking damage, making his cap look similar to a Super Mushroom.
As of the 1.1.0 update of the Nintendo Switch version, a palette swap of Captain Toad called Purple Captain Toad is playable in multiplayer mode except in the Special Episode. Like its name indicates, it is a purple version of him with a purple cap similar to that of a Poison Mushroom, a purple scarf and purple shoes instead of red ones.

Captain Toad makes a few cameo appearances (in puppet form) via the video series The Cat Mario Show that appear on the Nintendo 3DS and Wii U's eShop. Additionally, a collectible stamp of Captain Toad's appearance from the show can also be unlocked in the Nintendo Badge Arcade for The Cat Mario Show theme.

Captain Toad makes a few cameos in the Super Smash Bros. series. He is mentioned in Toad's trophy in Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS, while in Super Smash Bros. for Wii U, Captain Toad and the Toad Brigade appear in the form of a trophy. In said trophy, the members of the Toad Brigade are depicted using their Super Mario Galaxy appearance. Captain Toad makes a cameo appearance in Super Smash Bros. Ultimate on the New Donk City Hall stage, standing near the top of the building, and there is also an Ace-class Grab-type primary spirit of him that can be obtained by enhancing Toad's spirit at level 99; when in use, items gravitate towards the fighter.

In Mario & Luigi: Paper Jam, Captain Toad appears on three different Toad Character Cards.

A playable skin designed after Captain Toad appears in the Super Mario Mash-up of Minecraft. Promotional artwork for this mash-up pack features a recreation of Captain Toad's artwork from Super Mario 3D World using his corresponding in-game skin.

Captain Toad makes his Mario Kart series debut as a High-End driver in Mario Kart Tour, introduced in the 2020 Exploration Tour. Despite being an alternate version of Toad, he is considered a completely separate character from Toad as opposed to a variant, similar to Dr. Mario, who is a separate version of Mario, although in the game's IDs the two are considered variants. His special skill is the Hammer. Starting from the Sky Tour, he is available in regular tour pipes, including the All-Clear Pipe.
In this game, Captain Toad jumps during most of his Jump Boost animations, despite his heavy backpack still being on.

Captain Toad briefly appears at the end of the jungle area of the Yoshi's Adventure ride at the Universal Studios Japan and Epic Universe versions of Super Nintendo World.

Captain Toad appears in the Captain Toad: Treasure Tracker microgame in WarioWare: Get It Together! based on the game of the same name.

In The Super Mario Bros. Movie, Toad's backpack is a reference to Captain Toad's backpack. Their connection is also heavily hinted due to the Toad Brigade theme being arranged for the scene where Mario meets Toad for the first time.
Captain Toad was planned to appear in the film, as he can be seen in early concept art.

Captain Toad is a member of the Toad species, and as such is short and usually smiling, with a mushroom cap with red spots. In his earlier appearances, his attire was more simplistic, with a red vest and white pants. As a result, his appearance was similar to many other red-spotted Toads. His key, distinguishing features include his large, oversized backpack, which prevents him from jumping, except in Mario Kart Tour. He has a headlamp, which distinguishes him from his fellow Toad Brigade members as their captain. Captain Toad can defeat Boos and Peepas by shining the light from his headlamp at them for a moment, similar to Light Boxes.
From Super Mario 3D World onwards, Captain Toad wears a beige explorer's outfit with two chest pockets on both sides, a red neckerchief, a brown belt with a gold buckle, and red shoes, and he retains his headlamp and large backpack. In the most recent update for the Nintendo Switch and Nintendo 3DS versions of Captain Toad: Treasure Tracker, Captain Toad gains an alternate, purple color scheme for the new co-op mode. 
In Super Smash Bros. Ultimate, Captain Toad has a more subdued color scheme than in the Super Mario games, while his outfit appears to be more detailed.

Despite being the leader of the Toad Brigade organization in both Super Mario Galaxy and its sequel, Captain Toad is extremely cowardly. His cowardice often leads to his fellow Toad Brigade members to talk negatively about the Captain behind his back. The captain also tends to be accident-prone and as a result, often lands himself into danger. Captain Toad can also be seen to be lazy as he can be seen daydreaming about relaxing in various galaxies. He also appears to be extremely quick at making tall tales to make himself appear braver than he truly is to the rest of his brigade members.
Regardless of his negative traits, he is seen to be highly resourceful in the Super Mario Galaxy titles. He also rewards Mario or Luigi with coins to replenish health and even power-ups. Captain Toad does occasionally find Power Stars himself; however, he is always ready to give it to either Mario or Luigi in an attempt to help the hero in his adventures as well as for the cause of saving the universe.
Captain Toad is described to being the "fearless" hunter of Green Stars within Super Mario 3D World and proves this title by being on a constant hunt for the exclusive stars despite lacking the ability to jump. Like in Super Mario Galaxy, he constantly rewards Mario, Luigi, Toad, Princess Peach, and Rosalina with Green Stars or coins and Power-Ups when encountered. 
Captain Toad is somewhat greedy, as he cannot help but try to snag any treasure he sees. This is shown in Captain Toad: Treasure Tracker's ending, where he does not hesitate to chase after the Green Star he sees falling from the sky, and after it falls into the Clear Pipe that leads to the Sprixie Kingdom, he tries to get it but falls into the pipe too. The director of Captain Toad: Treasure Tracker, Shinya Hiratake, describes Captain Toad to being so engrossed with finding treasure to the point where his obsession is akin to a crow attracted to shiny things or a moth to a flame. As a result, Hiratake even questions Captain Toad's loyalty to the Mushroom Kingdom due to him being oblivious to his surroundings as long as the captain finds any treasure. 
Similar to other Toads, Captain Toad has a frightful characteristic, as he can be seen to be panicking in a comical sense from various enemies in his appearances in Super Mario 3D World courses.

Upon the release of Super Mario Galaxy, the Prima Games guide stated that the Toad Brigade leader was the main Toad character, using Toad's artwork as his. Due to his similarities to the aforementioned character, it caused confusion between the two characters when it was stated that Captain Toad was the same Toad as in Super Mario Galaxy. However, it has since been confirmed that Toad and Captain Toad are not the same character. Him being a separate Toad with a unique name was confirmed in the Super Mario Pia, an official memorial book written for the 30th Anniversary of Super Mario Bros. In the North American website for Super Mario 3D All-Stars, one of the "Fabulous Firsts" listed for Super Mario Galaxy was "First appearance of Captain Toad!"
Despite these explicit statements, a few other sources have gone on to suggest a connection with Toad. In Super Smash Bros. Ultimate, if the Toad spirit is leveled up to 99 and enhanced, it turns into Captain Toad. In a pamphlet given at Japanese cinemas showing The Super Mario Bros. Movie explaining the references in the film, Captain Toad: Treasure Tracker is mentioned in the pages about Toad and it is described as the first 3D action game with Toad as the main character. In a video posted by Nintendo UK on YouTube to promote Nintendo Switch games featuring Super Mario characters, gameplay of Captain Toad in Captain Toad: Treasure Tracker is showcased in the segment about Toad.

When first introduced in Super Mario Galaxy, Captain Toad introduces himself as the self-appointed leader of the Toad Brigade much to the disdain of the other members of the Toad Brigade. It is later revealed that the other Toads of the group felt that he was not suitable to be a leader due to his cowardice and his tendency to abandon his team at the first sight of danger. Despite this, Captain Toad values his team deeply and always goes back to help rescue his team with the help of Mario or Luigi regardless of the dangers, though he prefers to avoid direct combat in each instance. Additionally, the other Toads of the brigade do express some form of concern for the captain whenever he goes missing during his various exploration trips around the galaxy and often call for the help of Mario or Luigi to help them look for him at times.

In Captain Toad: Treasure Tracker, Captain Toad is shown to have a close bond with Toadette and appears to enjoy going on expeditions with her. While his greedy desires for treasure do occasionally distract the captain from spending time with Toadette, Captain Toad cares for her as he goes through various dangerous worlds in order to rescue her and their treasure from  Wingo (vise-versa for Toadette herself who returns the favor in rescuing Captain Toad when he's captured). Rare emotions of deep concern for Toadette and frustration are also expressed by Captain Toad during the various cutscenes in the game. 
Additionally, it appears that the other members of the Toad Brigade have gained further respect for Captain Toad in this title as they trust his decisions in retrieving treasure and are even seen cheering for him whenever Captain Toad clears certain levels. The Toad Brigade will even allow Captain Toad to lead them during certain levels in the game. 

The Art of Super Mario Odyssey: Headlamp on and pack on his back, Captain Toad searches the world for Power Moons. He'll give Mario a Power Moon if he runs into him, along with a cute anecdote explaining how he found it.