The Cat Cruiser is a kart in the Mario Kart series. It is a pink vehicle resembling somewhat of a Volkswagen New Beetle, with cat motifs such as whiskers, a tail, ears embedded on the windshield, and a paw-shaped seat. The emblem is located on the sides of the kart. When the kart is underwater, the propeller appears on the end of the tail, rather than the usual location on or just below the back of the kart.

The Cat Cruiser makes its first appearance in Mario Kart 8 as an unlockable kart body. Its stats are identical to the Standard Kart, The Duke, Teddy Buggy, Prancer, Sneeker and the 300 SL Roadster, which means it grants drivers no advantages or disadvantages.
This vehicle is based on Princess Peach's cat form in Super Mario 3D World. Cat Peach also appears in The Legend of Zelda × Mario Kart 8, making this her signature kart. In fact, a CPU-controlled Cat Peach will occasionally use this kart body paired with the Standard tires.
In Mario Kart 8 Deluxe, CPU Cat Peach, Toadette, and Peachette occasionally use this kart body paired with the Retro Off-Road tires, while Daisy uses it with the Standard tires instead. Its stats also got changed so that it now offers acceleration and handling in exchange of speed. It shares stats with the Comet, Yoshi Bike and Teddy Buggy.

The Cat Cruiser reappears in Mario Kart Tour, where it is classified as a High-End kart. It was introduced in the 2021 Cat Tour and is the signature kart of Cat Peach once again. It uses pink-rimmed versions of the Standard tires from Mario Kart 8 and Mario Kart 8 Deluxe. The Cat Cruiser raises the duration of Mini-Turbo speed boosts and the number of points earned for performing Mini-Turbos. A black and red variant named the Black Cat Cruiser was introduced in the September 2021 Sydney Tour, and a gray and purple variant named the Gray Cat Cruiser was introduced in the New Year's 2022 Tour. A cream-colored variant named the Cream Cat Cruiser and a green-colored variant called the Green Cat Cruiser were both introduced in the 2022 Cat Tour.
The Cat Cruiser is available in regular tour pipes, including the All-Clear Pipe. It is also in the Daily Selects lineup. The following table shows this kart's availability by tour.