The Cheep Charger is a kart in the Mario Kart series. It has the shape of a Cheep Cheep with wheels, an exhaust pipe shaped like a tail fin, and fin-like wings which flap when the kart boosts behind the cab. The emblem of located on the sides of the kart.

The Cheep Charger first appears in Mario Kart Wii. It is a small kart that has the best acceleration among all karts in the game. It also has decent handling, drifting, and Mini-Turbo stats. However, the vehicle's top speed is fairly low (tied with the Daytripper) and it is the lightest kart in the game (its weight being tied with the Bullet Bike and Magikruiser). As such, it jumps at the highest angle out of any kart in the game.
The Cheep Charger is unlocked when the player attains at least one star rank for all 50cc Retro Grand Prix Cups or plays 1,800 races. The Cheep Charger has the same off-road stat as the Wario Bike, and its drift performance is tied with the Wild Wing and the Shooting Star. If the Cheep Charger is ridden by Toad, it has the best acceleration out of all karts in the game. If it is ridden by Toadette, it can drift off-road. The Cheep Charger was the only unlockable kart revealed before the release of Mario Kart Wii, as Toad and Baby Peach were both seen driving it.
When ridden by Baby Mario, the kart resembles the original Cheep Cheep. When ridden by Koopa Troopa, it resembles a Deep Cheep and when ridden by a Female Mii, it resembles an Eep Cheep, although it is more vague. Dry Bones is the only driver whose Cheep Charger's lips are colored differently than all the drivers that use pink for the lips, due to Dry Bones having an achromatic color scheme. The Cheep Charger's bike counterpart is the Quacker, while its medium counterpart is the Classic Dragster. The Cheep Charger and the Quacker also share the apparent children’s toy-design theme and are based on types of swimming animals. The Cheep Charger is battery-powered, and just like the Blue Falcon, the battery is located under the kart and can only be seen when the vehicle is flipped. The artwork featuring Toad in his Cheep Charger is seen in a Mario Kart Wii downloadable wallpaper.
If Baby Luigi or Baby Daisy ride the Cheep Charger, its speed will tie with the Offroader's default speed.
The color schemes of the Cheep Charger for the different characters is as follows:

The Cheep Charger returns in Mario Kart Tour, where it is classified as a Normal kart. Unlike before, it only uses Baby Mario's color scheme no matter which driver is using it, and its fins no longer move. It uses the Sponge tires from Mario Kart 8 and Mario Kart 8 Deluxe. The Cheep Charger increases the duration of Jump Boost speed boosts and the amount of points resulted from performing Jump Boosts.
The game introduces a green variant, simply named the Green Cheep Charger, which is also classified as a Normal kart, as well as a gold variant, simply named the Gold Cheep Charger, which is classified as a High-End kart. Two counterparts with diving equipment on, called the Cheep Snorkel and the Gold Cheep Snorkel, appear in the game, which are also classified as High-End karts.
The Cheep Charger can be obtained from regular pipes, and is also a part of the Daily Selects set. It has also been made available in other ways, shown below by tour.

The Cheep Charger appears as a Novice-class Grab-type primary spirit in Super Smash Bros. Ultimate. It uses the artwork featuring Toad. It has one support slot and raises the fighter's movement speed when used. In the spirit battle, the player faces Peach on the Mario Circuit stage.