Cheep Cheeps (sometimes formatted as Cheep-Cheeps or Cheep-cheeps) are pufferfish-like creatures that made their first appearance in Super Mario Bros. in the underwater levels. They are common recurring enemies throughout the Super Mario franchise. They are found mostly in water, but often jump out of it as well. There are many different species of Cheep Cheeps, and they come in different colors, including orange, yellow, green, light-blue, blue, indigo, purple, magenta, black, gray, and brown. The most common ones, however, are red with a white patch on their stomach, a yellow (originally white in some artwork) tail fin, a mohawk-like dorsal fin and wing-like fins. They also have blue eyes and pink lips. Cheep Cheeps may attack above the surface of the water by jumping out in an arc. Given this, Cheep Cheeps seem to be inspired by flying fish, hence their wing-like fins, which behave similarly. Many Cheep Cheeps appear to be among Bowser's Minions, though some, such as the ones seen in Paper Mario: The Thousand-Year Door, are not. In many games, Cheep Cheeps possess a variety of attacks, typically involving jumping behavior.

Cheep-cheeps appear in Super Mario Bros. and Super Mario Bros.: The Lost Levels. They are encountered in every underwater level, first appearing in World 2-2 in Super Mario Bros., and swim towards the player character in either a straight line or a wavy pattern. There are red Cheep-cheeps that move moderately fast and gray Cheep-cheeps, which move slower. A single green one is located off-screen in World 2-3 of Super Mario Bros. The gray ones are recolored green in Super Mario All-Stars, a holdover from the "orange and gray" palette used underwater in the original occupying the same hardware space as the "orange and green" palette used for overworld graphics, as demonstrated by World 9 of Super Mario Bros.: The Lost Levels. A Cheep-cheep can be defeated from either a fireball or if Mario is invincible. The red Cheep-cheeps of World 2-3 and World 7-3 in Super Mario Bros. leap from the bottom of the screen, and can be defeated from being stomped. Since no more than three enemies can appear onscreen once due to hardware limitations, only three Cheep Cheeps are ever allowed onscreen at a time.
A few green Cheep-cheeps take on the identity of a fake Bowser, including the one at the end of World B-4 in the Super Mario All-Stars version of Super Mario Bros.: The Lost Levels and the fake Bowser at the end of World 1-4 in the You VS. Boo mode of Super Mario Bros. Deluxe.
In the English instruction booklet only, Cheep-cheeps is referred to by female pronouns.

Cheep-Cheeps appear in Super Mario Bros. 3. They are featured in red and green variants, the latter type appearing only in World 3-5 and World 6-9. The green type appears cyan in fortresses in the original version. Red Cheep-Cheeps usually swim before leaping from the water in order to hit Mario, though some bounce along the surface constantly and make a large leap once they approach Mario. Other Cheep-Cheeps jump between small portions of water, and cannot be seen underwater. Some Cheep-Cheeps leap from the bottom of the screen at random, like in Super Mario Bros., though sometimes over lava. Golden-yellow Cheep-Cheeps capable of moving faster than even green Cheep-Cheeps and appearing in trios moving in a wavy pattern were planned to appear but went unused. Besides Cheep-cheeps, several variants were introduced, including Baby Cheeps; their parent, Big Bertha; Boss Bass, and Spiny Cheep-Cheeps (referred to as "Cheep-cheeps" in localized manuals). Though both are red, Big Bertha and Boss Bass behave as enlarged versions of the green and red Cheep Cheeps, respectively.
Besides the unused golden yellow Cheep-Cheeps, Super Mario Advance 4: Super Mario Bros. 3 was also going to feature the beached Cheep Cheeps of Super Mario World in its extra levels, but they were removed. Unlike in Super Mario World, they hurt Mario if he runs into them.

Cheep Cheeps appear in Super Mario World and its reissue. They are slow-moving fish that swimming back and forth underwater, though some levels of the Forest of Illusion show them in floating bubbles over land. Cheep Cheeps that flip around on land can be defeated instantly if touched. Cheep Cheeps can also be defeated with a Cape, Yoshi, or fireballs. Certain levels have underwater Cheep Cheeps that can leap up vertically every so often, such as in Awesome, where they leap from the bottom of the screen endlessly, though the relevant artworkMedia:Special World.jpg depicts the related Blurp instead. Cheep Cheeps are depicted in one color only, using the game's yellow palette, with the behavior of swimming forward endlessly being given to Blurps instead. Cheep Cheeps that are underwater are depicted with anal fins, but not on land. Unlike most enemies, Cheep Cheeps do not appear in the ending's cast roll.

Cheep-Cheeps appear in Super Mario Land 2: 6 Golden Coins. They are depicted after their appearance in Super Mario World. Cheep-Cheeps encountered in the Macro Zone and Turtle Zone. Cheep-Cheeps can swim either horizontally or vertically. Cheep-Cheeps can be defeated from either a shell, a fireball, or if touched by Invincible Mario. Blurps also appear, and the game introduces a pufferfish version of Spiny Cheep-Cheeps.

Bubs appear in Super Mario 64. They are only encountered in Dire, Dire Docks. Bubs are colored orange, have visible scales, red fins and tail, and wear large goggles, making them resemble Blurps more closely than Cheep Cheeps. Bubs typically swim around through the water aimlessly and can sometimes approach the player character. A Bub takes away health from the player character on contact. They cannot be defeated. The Player's Guide describes a Bub as "one cool koi." In Super Mario 64 DS, Bubs are designed after Cheep Cheeps as depicted in artwork from Super Mario Bros., a design retained in most games, and one of their behavioral differences is no longer swimming higher or lower from their starting position.

Cheep-Cheeps appear in Super Mario Sunshine. There is a scarlet variety encountered in Ricco Harbor, Noki Bay, and sometimes during the King Boo fight in Sirena Beach; a fiery, dark-purple variant inhabiting the lava of Corona Mountain; and Tobi Fish, or Toki Fish,) a magenta variety encountered in Gelato Beach, Noki Bay and Delfino Airstrip. The BradyGames guide refers to both the scarlet and magenta varieties as Tobi Fish. The scarlet and charred varieties leap at varying heights, and are defeated from either being stomped or sprayed with water from FLUDD. Cheep-Cheeps temporarily become platorms if sprayed with juice from Yoshi. Two Cheep-Cheeps are sometimes spit out by King Boo during his battle if the slot machine lands on three question marks, though the Cheep-Cheeps flop about upside down. The magenta variety is invulnerable and pursues Mario actively, dragging him down into the water if he is caught in their mouth; they have wider lips like in Super Mario World 2: Yoshi's Island, blue fins on their tails and back, blue spots on their undersides, and a slightly flatter body shape.

Cheep-Cheeps appear in New Super Mario Bros.. Cheep-Cheeps have light pink lips in their artwork, though it is colored deep orange in-game. Cheep-Cheeps behave identically as before. One Cheep-Cheep in a bonus area of World 2-4 has a different behavior of swimming in a wavy line as six coins trail behind it. Besides a larger version, two varieties were introduced, Deep-Cheeps (also having a larger version) and Spike Bass, both chasing the player character upon noticing him.

Cheep Cheeps appear in Super Mario Galaxy. They are encountered in Deep Dark Galaxy. In the second mission, they appear on a small planet, half of which is covered in a thin layer of water, and bounce up and down around the planet while flipping. They can be defeated either with a spin or by jumping on them. One appears underwater in the third mission, which can only be beaten with a spin or Koopa Shell. In the epilogue, Cheep Cheeps jump out of the water near Peach's Castle.

Cheep Cheeps appear in New Super Mario Bros. Wii. It is now possible for Cheep Cheeps to collide with one another, leading to situations where two may become stuck swimming against one another. Multiple Cheep Cheeps swimming in a certain direction can push individual Cheep Cheeps backward if they swim a certain direction. Besides the red type, there are also Deep Cheeps, the newly introduced Eep Cheeps, and Spiny Cheep Cheeps.

Cheep Cheeps appear in Super Mario Galaxy 2. They are encountered in Cosmic Cove Galaxy, Starshine Beach Galaxy, and other water-themed galaxies, being a lot more common than in Super Mario Galaxy. A few swim in vertical loops in a side-scrolling portion of Bowser's Gravity Gauntlet as well. Cheep Cheeps now appear swimming near the surface and can be defeated by a spin, jump, or by Yoshi's tongue. They do not hop on land like before. Cheep Cheeps cannot be stunned with a Star Bit.

Cheep Cheeps appear in Super Mario 3D Land. They are first encountered om World 1-1, and appear in underwater areas of other levels such as Worlds 3-2 and World 7-1. Cheep Cheeps can also jump out of water. A difference is that bouncing on a Cheep Cheep underwater bounces the player character up slightly without harming them. Cheep Cheeps can be flattened from a Ground Pound while underwater. Cheep Cheeps can be defeated by fireballs, tail whips, boomerang hits, and turning into Statue Mario above them.

Cheep Cheeps appear in New Super Mario Bros. 2. They jump out of water trying to harm Mario or Luigi. Cheep Cheeps become golden while a Gold Ring is active, during which they are followed by a row of five coins. Some Cheep Cheeps swim in a circle similarly to Circling Boo Buddies. Several Cheep Cheeps appear in the boss fight against Wendy O. Koopa, when she whistles them to attack.

Cheep Cheeps appear in New Super Mario Bros. U, New Super Luigi U, and their port. They behave identically as before. Besides the returning Cheep Cheeps and Eep Cheeps, the game introduces the Mecha Cheep variety, which use propellers on their fins to move forward in underwater airship levels.

Cheep Cheeps appear in Super Mario 3D World and its port. They are encountered in the first half of Pipeline Lagoon only. They behave identically as in Super Mario 3D Land. The port's Bowser's Fury mode has a regional variant with cat ears and tails that appear somewhat uncommonly throughout Lake Lapcat, swimming around platforms lightly submerged in water. Besides their appearance, the cat variants are no different from regular Cheep Cheeps.

Cheep Cheeps are course parts in Super Mario Maker and Super Mario Maker for Nintendo 3DS. They can be placed above or underwater. Cheep Cheeps function the same as before, except they do not flip around in the New Super Mario Bros. U game style when the vocals occur. In the Course Maker, Cheep Cheeps start out as their green variant (replacing the gray Cheep Cheeps from the original Super Mario Bros.) and travel in a straight line endlessly, swimming while gently bobbing while underwater or hopping along the bottom of the screen in ground-based stages. They can be shaken to be turned into their red variant, which goes back and forth in a bobbing line if they are underwater or chases Mario if they are above water. Cheep Cheeps can be enlarged by a Super Mushroom and given wings, the latter causing them to fly in the air after jumping out of the water or swim in a wavy pattern when underwater. Cheep Cheeps can be placed in Bill Blasters, Warp Pipes, and Blocks. If placed in lava in the castle theme, Cheep Cheeps become engulfed in flames. Green Cheep Cheeps come out from pipes endlessly, though red ones emerge only three times until one is defeated. Collecting the Big Mushroom after scanning the 30th Anniversary Mario amiibo gives the Cheep Cheeps a mustache and ring-shaped lips similar to their modern design.
In the Super Mario World and New Super Mario Bros. U styles, the green Cheep Cheeps appear as Blurps and Deep Cheeps, respectively. Despite this, they are both named as Cheep Cheeps in the game, and use the basic Cheep Cheep behaviors rather than the latter's typical chasing.

Cheep Cheeps (parsed as "CheepCheeps" on the promotional world map) appear in Super Mario Odyssey. They are encountered in the Lake Kingdom and the Seaside Kingdom. Cheep Cheeps behave identically as in previous 3D entries of the Super Mario series, swimming back and forth in a predictable pattern. A difference from before is that Cheep Cheeps can be captured by Mario, allowing him to swim quicker and breathe underwater. A captured Cheep Cheep can perform a spin attack if the player shakes either the Joy-Con or Pro Controller. Captured Cheep Cheeps produce a beam of light in the direction they are facing, like the shells in Super Mario Galaxy and Super Mario Galaxy 2. The volleyball in the Beach Volleyball minigame in the Seaside Kingdom is designed after a Cheep Cheep. Mario can obtain the Lake Kingdom Power Moon I Met a Lake Cheep Cheep! by capturing a Cheep Cheep and bringing it to a Lochlady.

A purple Cheep Cheep variety appears in the Snow Kingdom. It is referred to as Cheep Cheep (Snow Kingdom) by the Capture List. Besides the coloring, the only difference between the two is that the Snow Kingdom variants are said to be resistant to the extremely cold temperatures in the water, though ordinary Cheep Cheeps can be fished up in a small pond on the southeast corner of the map. There is a Bonneter biologist who wants to know how they can survive in the freezing water, and he will give Mario the I Met a Snow Cheep Cheep! Power Moon for bringing him one, stating that their round body shape and mouth help them survive in the freezing water.

Cheep Cheeps appear in Super Mario Maker 2. They retain their behavior in its predecessor. Both the green and red types appear in the added Super Mario 3D World game style. In the Course Maker, Cheep Cheeps belong in the enemy category and can be given a parachute. Cheep Cheeps placed in poison in the Night mode of forest theme become engulfed in it, protecting them from stomp attacks. They also swim in the air during airship and sky courses set at night. Cheep Cheeps are no longer affected if Mario collects a Big Mushroom.
Once again, Blurps and Deep Cheeps are used in their respective styles, but still called Cheep Cheeps.

Cheep Cheeps appear in Super Mario Bros. Wonder. Underwater, they can additionally be defeated if stomped, unlike previous appearances. Cheep Cheeps sometimes appear out of water like in Super Mario World, but damage the player character when touched from the sides or bottom.

In Super Mario Bros.: Peach-hime Kyūshutsu Dai Sakusen!, several Cheep-cheeps appear flying out of Mario's television when he is playing Family Computer at the beginning of the film. Later, mega-sized Cheep-cheeps make an appearance, shown ballooning and bursting into many smaller versions of themselves.

Like in The Super Mario Bros. Super Show!, regular Cheep Cheeps do not appear in The Adventures of Super Mario Bros. 3. Spiny Cheep Cheeps, however, appear in the episode The Venice Menace as the Doom Sub enters the Warp Pipe to Venice. They share the same coloration as a regular Cheep Cheep, likely as a combination of the enemies.

In Super Mario World: Mario to Yoshi no Bōken Land, a Cheep Cheep is one of the incorrect choices in a question. It does not appear anywhere else in the video. It appears golden-yellow similar to their in-game appearance from Super Mario World instead of red.

As Luigi and Toad are exploring Water Land in Leaping Lizards, some Cheep Cheeps jump from the water to try to attack them, but most are avoided; some of the fish also appear three weeks later among the crowds at the International Mushroom Games. This book also describes Cheep Cheeps as having crab-like claws when one pinches Toad. In Pipe Down!, Ludwig von Koopa will sic some Cheep Cheeps on the Mario Bros. if they attempt to attack him directly during one portion of the book, and some will attack Mario along with some other monsters if he pulls the wrong knob on Ludwig's giant pipe organ.
If Mario, Luigi, Toad, and the Mushroom King are run down by a group of Dino Rhinos in Flown the Koopa, they will lose their tickets to the International Dino-Flying Derby, which will end up being blown into a tree inhabited by Cheep Cheeps by a gust of wind. If Mario is chosen to get the tickets back, he will succeed, stomping the irritated Cheep Cheep he takes them from. If Luigi tries to get the tickets instead, a Cheep Cheep will bite him and cause him to fall out of the tree and into a patch of Munchers, causing a Game Over.

Cheep Cheeps are falling objects in Yoshi. They use their sprite from Super Mario World. Cheep Cheeps appear in the A-type mode once 60-69 eggs have been hatched in the Family Computer/Nintendo Entertainment System version, or 70 or more in the Game Boy version. If a Cheep Cheep appears in Yoshi's place in a bonus game if the playewr does not make Yoshi appear.

Cheep Cheeps are fairly common obstacles in Mario Kart series. They also have a few courses named after them.

Flopping Cheep Cheeps are obstacles in Super Mario Kart. They are encountered in Koopa Beach 1 and Koopa Beach 2. Flopping Cheep Cheeps spin out the player on contact. They resemble their flopping sprite and coloration from Super Mario World. A balloon-like giant Cheep Cheep holds the trophy during the award ceremony.

A Cheep-Cheep appears in Mario Kart 64 with the same role in the awards ceremony as the giant one in Super Mario Kart. Another giant Cheep-Cheep is seen in Banshee Boardwalk.

Cheep-Cheeps are non-playable characters in Mario Kart: Super Circuit. They take on their design from Yoshi's Story. Cheep-Cheeps do not appear in the returning courses Koopa Beach 1 and Koopa Beach 2, but one does leap over the winner stands during the awards ceremony, similarly as in previous entries of the Mario Kart series.

A Cheep Cheep makes a background appearance in Mario Kart: Double Dash!!. It is depicted with its design from Mario Party 4. The Lakitu may pull either a Cheep Cheep or a Mega Cheep-Cheep up instead of a stoplight.

Cheep Cheeps are background characters in Mario Kart Arcade GP and Mario Kart Arcade GP 2. They resemble their design from Super Mario Sunshine. Cheep Cheeps can be seen leaping over a specific corner of the track at Mario Beach, not accessible from Mario Highway, but they cannot hit racers.

Cheep Cheeps are obstacles in Mario Kart DS. They are encountered in their namesake course, Cheep Cheep Beach, and the returning SNES Koopa Beach 2. The giant Cheep Cheep in the returning N64 Banshee Boardwalk is replaced with a Bubba.

Cheep Cheeps are referenced in Mario Kart Wii. The Cheep Charger is a light-weight kart resembling Cheep Cheeps, and there are blimps of them in Luigi Circuit. In Koopa Cape and Chain Chomp Wheel, Big Cheep Cheeps appear behind glass walls and floors in the background

Cheep Cheeps are obstacles in Mario Kart 7. They are encountered in Cheep Cheep Lagoon and Daisy Cruiser, where they can push players but generally swim above them. Cheep Cheeps can be seen in the returning Wii Koopa Cape.

Cheep Cheeps are background characters in Mario Kart Arcade GP DX. They appear in a few places in Tropical Coast, where they leap close to the starting line and flop on the sidelines occasionally. A few Cheep Cheeps also swim from later parts of the underwater tunnel.

Cheep Cheeps are obstacles in Mario Kart 8 and Mario Kart 8 Deluxe. They are encountered in the returning DS Cheep Cheep Beach and SNES Donut Plains 3. The Booster Course Pass adds Cheep Cheeps in Wii Koopa Cape and Piranha Plant Cove. There are two golden Cheep Cheep statues above the finish line in Dragon Driftway.

Cheep Cheeps are obstacles in Mario Kart Tour. They are encountered in Amsterdam Drift 2R/T, SNES Koopa Troopa Beach 2, GBA Cheep-Cheep Island, Wii Koopa Cape, 3DS Cheep Cheep Lagoon, and RMX Donut Plains 1. Cheep Cheeps swim around in circles or on a path between two separate points, while those above water either continuously jump on the ground or leap in front of drivers from the water. Big Cheep Cheeps also appear as background elements in GBA Cheep-Cheep Island. When bumped into, Cheep Cheeps simply bounce a driver back. They can be taken out by hitting them with an item or by simply driving into them, giving points in the process.
The game also features several vehicle parts based on Cheep Cheeps: the Cheep Charger returns from Mario Kart Wii, while several parts such as the Cheep Snorkel and Cheep Cheep Masks debut. A Mii Racing Suit based on a Cheep Cheep also appears as of the Ocean Tour, having the Bubble as its special skill.

Cheep Cheeps are obstacles in Mario Kart Live: Home Circuit. They are encountered in Cheep Cheep Reef. Cheep Cheeps are followed by five coins, and contact with one stuns drivers briefly.

Cheep-Cheeps appear in Yoshi's Safari. They are colored magenta. Cheep-Cheeps are encountered in the second part of Crescent Coast and in the Dark Sea. Their behavior is to swim back and forth in the former location and jump out of the water in the latter. Cheep-Cheeps are defeated instantly from a single blast from the Super Scope.

Cheep Cheeps appear in Super Mario World 2: Yoshi's Island and its remake. They are visually split between surface and underwater types, known in the American English guide as Flopsy Fish and Piscatory Petes, respectively.

Flopsy Fish are colored red (green in their artwork) and have wider mouths and smaller, closer together eyes than most depictions, and also have yellow pectoral fins. They typically attack by swimming around atop the surface of water, with some occasionally leaping straight up into the air, or in an arc while holding their toothy mouths open. Yet another variety endlessly jumps in an arc without ever swimming back and forth. They cannot be turned into eggs if eaten. A Flopsy Fish also appears as the map icon for the level "Lake Shore Paradise," which features Flopsy Fish of all behaviors.

Piscatory Petes are slightly smaller and resemble the Cheep Cheep design of Super Mario World, along with the Blurps of the same game. There are two varieties: a blue type that swims forward, occasionally pausing, and a yellow one that quickly follows Yoshi in straight lines, only changing direction when it pauses or hits a wall. The lips of Piscatory Pete are exactly the same as the ones on Loch Nestor. A Yoshi can defeat them in its Submarine form with a single torpedo.

Cheep Cheeps appear in Yoshi's Island DS. They retain their Flopsy Fish and Piscatory Pete designs, but the latter is now called Cheep Cheeps in English. Flopsy Fish appear similarly as before, though their lips and pectoral fins are colored normally. Underwater Cheep Cheeps also act the same as before, but cannot be destroyed by torpedoes, since the submarine cannot shoot them. They appear automatically in the Island Museum after the first time they are encountered. Cheep-Chomps (known as Boss Bass) also return, having a boss version known as Bessie Bass.

Cheep Cheeps appear in Yoshi's New Island. They are designed similarly to their other appearances around the time, but still have slightly wider mouths. Cheep Cheeps act like Flopsy Fish while on the surface and are encountered underwater in Submarine Yoshi areas only. Cheep Cheeps simply swim forwards in a straight line, and green Cheep Cheeps also appear, swimming in a wavy pattern. The game's files indicate the green ones are based on Deep Cheeps.

Cheep Cheeps appear in Super Mario RPG: Legend of the Seven Stars. Though they kept their standard name in Japan and in the remake, they were given the name Goby in English localization of the original game. Cheep Cheeps roam the waterways of Kero Sewers. In battle, a Cheep Cheep will lower its head and ram into its enemy, and have no special attacks. They are weak against lightning-based magic attacks, and are stunned for a turn when hit with one.
After the water of Kero Sewers is drained, Cheep Cheeps flop around erratically on the dry ground, but behave normally in battle. Cheep Cheeps also have green relatives called Mr. Kippers.
In Bowser's Keep, a Cheep Cheep named Kipp makes a small appearance as part of one of Dr. Topper's puzzles, where he had apparently competed in a triathlon.

A blue Flopsy Fish appears in Tetris Attack. It is paired with Lunge Fish during gameplay, and it reuses the same pose as the Flopsy Fish's artwork from Super Mario World 2: Yoshi's Island.

Cheep Cheeps (also called simply fish) appear in Yoshi's Story. They are encountered in Neuron Jungle, Lots O'Jelly Fish, and Lots O'Fish. Cheep Cheeps are depicted with visible eyelids, higher-set eyes, and orange lips that are separate all the way to the mouth corners. Cheep Cheeps possess different fins than before, having smaller, circular, and yellow pectoral fins as well as tailfins split into two lobes instead of the usual three. Cheep Cheeps either move back and forth within a small area or swim forward in a relatively straight line. A secret area of Lots O'Fish shows Cheep Cheeps swimming in and out of the background in a huge school, with some carrying melons, similarly to Flying Shy Guys. The Spiny Fish appears and only swims back and forth, while two large red and blue varieties of Boss Bass (now called "big Blurps") appear.

A large Cheep Cheep appears in Mario Party. It is encountered in Yoshi's Tropical Island, where stepping on a Happening Space causes a large Cheep Cheep, named Bubba in English releases, to take Toad in its mouth and switch his position with Bowser. In Mario Party Superstars, it was replaced by a Cheep Chomp.

Large Cheep-cheeps are obstacles in the minigame Abandon Ship in Mario Party 2. They leap from the water very quickly at players as they climb the sinking masts, causing them to slide slightly down if they hit.

A large Cheep Cheep is an obstacle in the minigame Cheep Cheep Chase in Mario Party 3. It is designed after its previous appearance. The large Cheep Cheep chases players while they dive to avoid bombs and eats whoever is too slow to avoid it.

Cheep Cheeps are an interactable species in Mario Party 4. They are redesigned to take traits from their Super Mario Bros. 3 and Super Mario World sprites, maintaining the design in most appearances until Super Mario 64 DS. One red Cheep Cheep  at the end of the minigame Fish n' Drips is dropped in the winning group's jar, which is also shaped like a Cheep Cheep. Cheep Cheeps appear in Cheep Cheep Sweep, where the goal for teams is to capture and release them into a small pool for points.

Cheep Cheeps are an interactable species in Mario Party 5. They are encountered in Fish Sticks, where players try various fishing lines to score Cheep Cheeps for one point or golden Cheep Cheeps for three points each respectively, as well as in Fish Upon a Star, as obstacles in large red and small blue varieties that crash into the arena, causing parts to fall. A red or blue Cheep Cheep submarine is used by the respective teams in the minigame Submarathon. Outside of minigames, Cheep Cheeps run small shops in the background of Undersea Dream.

Cheep Cheeps make background appearances in Mario Party 6. On the main menu, saying "Cheep Cheep" into the mic causes Cheep Cheeps to jump out of the water. They cameo in Slot Trot as one of the possible images.

Cheep Cheep is a character in Mario Party Advance. He appears in Shroom City along with his coach, a yellow Cheep Cheep. He is found practicing his swimming at the Mushroom Pool, though is lacking confidence, so the player is requested to help Cheep Cheep regain it by losing in such a way that it does not appear deliberate. When the condition is fulfilled, Cheep Cheep excitedly tells his coach that he won. As Cheep Cheep resumes swim practice, the player is thanked by the coach for boosting his confidence and is rewarded the Desktop Golf Gaddget. Cheep Cheep was also one of the three witnesses and suspects who saw Shroomlock being dragged off Sushi Cliff but denied responsibility. In the epilogue, Cheep Cheep managed to set a new record.
Cheep Cheeps are a species in Reel Cheep, where the goal is to catch the largest one possible.

Cheep Cheeps are obstacles in the minigames Fish & Cheeps, Bridge Work, and Be My Chum! as well as on the board Grand Canal in Mario Party 7. In the minigames, Cheep Cheeps knock back players on contact. A few Cheep Cheeps in the Grand Canal appear when a player lands on its Happening Space and squirt them back to the starting point.

Cheep Cheeps are background characters in the minigame Rowed to Victory and pictures in Picture Perfect in Mario Party 8. In the former, Cheep Cheeps watch the players row their boat and assist Mega Cheep-Cheep in chasing the losers at the end.

Cheep Cheeps are obstacles in Cheep Chump, where they create whirlpools having to be avoided; an interactable species in Cheep Cheep Chance, where players try to choose the rope with the Cheep Cheep; and the likeness of one of the plush toys in Plush Crush in Mario Party DS.

A giant Cheep Cheep is a boss in Mario Party 9. It is the mini-boss of Blooper Beach, being fought in the minigame Cheep Cheep Shot. Cheep Cheep attacks by either charging at a player or diving at them from the air. The Cheep Cheep takes damage from shells being thrown at it. Besides the boss, Cheep Cheeps appear in a few minigames, including Pianta Pool, where three and five leap through a pink or golden ring, respectively; Pier Pressure, where players try to grab the lines with Cheep Cheeps on the end; and in Jigsaw Jumble, appearing on one of the puzzles.

Cheep Cheeps cameo in the minigames Match Faker and Tap Dash as tiles in Mario Party: Island Tour.

Cheep Cheeps are an interactable species in Mario Party 10. They appear in various minigames, usually being portrayed in large shoals. Several Cheep Cheeps appear in Cheep Cheep Leap, where invincible players can hit them for points. A Cheep Cheep is seen standing along many enemies on an arrangement of pictures in Meanie Match. Cheep Cheeps swim around in an aquarium in Cheep Cheep Check, where three players try to count the Cheep Cheeps as the first player interfere by moving them. Some Cheep Cheep sentries appear in the Cheep Chomp battle while said boss is maddened, deflecting Koopa Shells thrown by players.

Cheep Cheeps are an interactable species in the minigame Cheep Cheep Reach in Mario Party: Star Rush, alongside Gold Cheep Cheeps.

Cheep Cheeps are non-playable characters appearing in the minigames Net Worth, worth one point each, and Rattle and Hmmm, alongside a Blooper and a Porcupuffer, as well as obstacles in the River Survival mode in Super Mario Party.

In Mario Golf, either a Bubba or a Cheep Cheep using its Yoshi's Story design will jump out of the water if the ball lands in it. A Cheep Cheep-shaped island surrounded by a fishbowl-shaped lake is also the theme of Hole 4 of Mario's Star. Cheep Cheep's name sometimes appears on the scorecard; perhaps incidentally, so does "Bub." In Mario Golf: Toadstool Tour, Cheep Cheeps have a course named after them, Cheep Cheep Falls. Cheep Cheeps make another appearance in Mario Golf: World Tour, swimming around the Cheep Cheep Lagoon course. In Mario Golf: Super Rush, Cheep Cheeps appear in the Shelltop Sanctuary course.

Only one Cheep Cheep appears in Paper Mario, Sushie, who is among Mario's many partners. Her appearance is primarily based on the "Flopsy Fish" design from Super Mario World 2: Yoshi's Island. The only other Cheep Cheep mentioned is her daughter Sashimie, who writes her a letter telling her she is going to have a baby.

Two Cheep Cheeps in Paper Mario: The Thousand-Year Door are designed similarly to Sushie. The first is Stewart, the conductor of the Cheep Blimp who closely resembles the Flopsy Fish from Super Mario World 2: Yoshi's Island, and the second is Chef Shimi, the chef on the Excess Express. The latter has "Cheep Cheep" as his first language, and as such often accidentally mixes words, such as "saved" and "shaved", up before immediately correcting himself. A sprite of a green Cheep Cheep resembling Stewart (albeit without his hat) appears unused in the game's files.

Cheep Cheeps are enemies in Super Paper Mario. The red type appears in Gloam Valley, while the green type does in the Tile Pool. Cheep Cheeps swim back and forth between walls, with the red type doing it along the surface of the water while the green type does this underwater. Cheep Cheeps have a rounder design reminiscent of their appearance in contemporary games. A Cheep Cheep is mentioned by a Shayde in The Underwhere, telling another of his species about how he lost his game and mentioned that he swam like a Cheep Cheep and lost by being eaten by a Boss Bass.

Cheep Cheeps are enemies in Paper Mario: Sticker Star. They are encountered in Whitecap Beach only, exclusively in red varieties. They jump out of the water, or poison if Gooper Blooper has not been defeated. Cheep Cheeps encountered from poison have the same HP as Spinies, although they can be defeated without being battled but respawn endlessly. Cheep Cheeps can attack by either slamming into Mario or shooting a jet of water, having a 75 percent chance of inflicting the Soggy status effect if Mario does not block it.
A Big Cheep Cheep also serves as a mini-boss and is fought in Surfshine Harbor.

Cheep Cheeps are enemies in Paper Mario: Color Splash. They are encountered in Bloo Bay Beach. Cheep Cheeps are designed identically as in Paper Mario: Sticker Star, albeit with the paper outline from Mario & Luigi: Paper Jam, and also behave identically. Small Cheep Cheeps appear in the Sacred Forest.

Cheep Cheeps appear in Paper Mario: The Origami King. They, like many of the Koopa Troop, are converted into Folded Soldiers by King Olly. Cheep Cheeps are also seen swimming around at Shogun Studios, outside the entrance to Big Sho' Theater, as well as the Great Sea. Regular Cheep Cheeps can also be fished up by Mario in various fishing spots in varying sizes. A large type of Cheep Cheep known as the Legendary Cheep Cheep can also be fished up at the pier in Full Moon Island.

Cheep Cheeps are enemies in Mario & Luigi: Superstar Saga. They are encountered in the Seabed. Cheep Cheeps are colored indigo instead of red. In the overworld, they dive into Mario and Luigi to try and battle with them. Cheep Cheeps can be aided by Starkisses, Malibuts and Mecha-Bloopers in battle, and jumping on a Cheep Cheep turns it into a Puffer-Cheeps, which are puffed-up and covered in spines.
A Cheep Cheep only cameos on a movie poster in Yoshi Theater in Mario & Luigi: Superstar Saga + Bowser's Minions, since Cheep Cheeps and their transformation are replaced by Spiny Cheep Cheeps, which now resemble violet-colored Cheep Cheeps in their default form.

Cheep Cheeps are obstacles in Mario & Luigi: Bowser's Inside Story. They are one of the objects that can come out of a Junker Can while being emptied by Junker. The Cheep Cheep jumps over either Mario or Luigi, damaging him if he is not idle. Cheep Cheeps were given a variant, Air Cheeps, which appear in the Airway of Bowser's body.
In Mario & Luigi: Bowser's Inside Story + Bowser Jr.'s Journey, Poison Mushrooms replace Cheep Cheeps during Junker's battle. However, Cheep Cheeps appear in the Bowser Jr.'s Journey mode as flying enemies, and their Special Skill is Super Stomp. They only appear in levels in Plack Beach. At the start of rounds involving them, they are not initially seen with the rest of the squad, rather they jump out of the water to their positions as soon as the battle starts. Cheep Cheeps are one of two standard Super Mario franchise enemies that cannot be recruited as allies, the other being Urchins due to being unable to travel on land.

Cheep Cheeps reappear in Mario & Luigi: Paper Jam as enemies, sporting their traditional red color scheme instead of indigo. In battle, they sometimes fight alongside Urchins. Hammer attacks do not affect them, as they float above the ground. Cheep Cheeps can attack by jumping into or over the Mario Bros. They can also attack by spitting water, which can be countered with a hammer. If they hit Paper Mario with their water attack, he will become Creased and will be unable to use or make copies of himself. If a battle is started with a Cheep Cheep as it is heading back to the water, the Cheep Cheeps will be tired and unable to float, allowing hammer attacks to be used. While they are tired, they will occasionally flee from battle. Their paper counterparts do not appear in the game.

Cheep Cheeps appear in some microgames in the WarioWare series. In Super Mario Bros. 3 of WarioWare: Twisted!, they can appear as flying enemies. In Clawing for More of WarioWare: Touched!, Cheep Cheeps from Super Mario Bros. 3 are one of the sprites that can appear from the ball upon breaking it. In Super Mario Maker of WarioWare Gold, shaking a Cheep Cheep to make it a Deep Cheep is required to win the microgame.

Cheep Cheeps are enemies in Yoshi Touch & Go. They have their swimming-and-leaping-upwards behavior from Super Mario World 2: Yoshi's Island, alongside the Spiny Cheep-Cheep, which jumps upwards constantly.

Cheep Cheeps are enemies in Super Princess Peach. They behave similarly to the Flopsy Fish in early entries of the Yoshi's Island series. They can be defeated simply by jumping on them. Cheep Cheeps also received a variant, Sad Cheep Cheeps.

Cheep Cheeps cameo in the Super Smash Bros. series. One appears ass a trophy in Super Smash Bros. Brawl and Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS as well as a sticker in the former. In Super Smash Bros. Ultimate, a Cheep Cheep makes a cameo in the River Survival spirit.

Cheep Cheeps are enemies in Captain Toad: Treasure Tracker and its ports. They appear only in two stages. If a Cheep Cheep within a group is stunned with the pointer or touch screen, the other Cheep Cheeps of the group stop moving. Cheep Cheeps swim back and forth on the ocean floor. They can be defeated either from being landed on, an Invincibility Mushroom, or using the 2 Player Co-op mode functionality on Nintendo Switch.

Cheep Cheeps appear in Yoshi's Woolly World and Poochy & Yoshi's Woolly World. They are depicted with a knitted appearance befitting the game's aesthetic. Their eyes are thinner and closer together than normal once again, and their mouths are as wide as they were in Super Mario World 2: Yoshi's Island. They appear during Mermaid Yoshi segments, and can swim in a variety of ways, including straight forwards and circling, akin to Circling Boo Buddies. If a Cheep Cheep is eaten by Yoshi in this game, it'll turn into a red yarn ball.

In Mario + Rabbids Kingdom Battle, a picture of a Cheep Cheep can be seen on a box featuring a Rabbid capturing a Blooper in a net at the beginning of the level Call of Sherbet Mountain.

In Mario + Rabbids Sparks of Hope, while DJ Cheep Tuna plays his DJ after it is cleared of Darkmess, lots of Cheep Cheeps jump out of the water in tune to the music.

Cheep Cheeps appear in Yoshi's Crafted World. They are encountered in Bombs Away on Pirate Island, Slip-Slide Isle, and Ride the River. Both Bombs Away on Pirate Island and Skulking Around include crafts of Cheep Cheeps, five in each level; in the former level, the crafts are cardboard signs of Cheep Cheeps, while in Skulking Around the crafts are crude paintings in golden frames found on the flip side. Cheep Cheeps attack the player character by jumping out of the water.

Cheep Cheeps are assistants in Dr. Mario World. In stage mode, they grant a chance that one virus is eliminated when starting a stage, but will not completely eliminate a virus that requires multiple hits to be eliminate such as floatie viruses or bubbles containing viruses. In versus mode, they make the player's attack meter fill faster by a certain percentage, rounding down the attack meter's value to the nearest round number after the percentage is applied.

In the teaser posterMedia:The Super Mario Bros Movie teaser poster.jpg for The Super Mario Bros. Movie, a purple Toad can be seen carrying a plastic fish bag containing a Cheep Cheep. A design of one also appears on the sign of the storefront behind the Toad. A bagged Cheep Cheep also appears in the film itself, where it glares at Mario when he and Toad are walking through the Mushroom Kingdom's town, though it is instead carried by a yellow Toad. In another scene, Mario, Peach, and Toad are seen crossing a bridge with Cheep Cheeps leaping over it, where one latches onto Mario's face; in the official trailer, Peach pulls it off and accidentally causes it to latch onto Toad's face instead. They are also far more detailed, with scales and more realistic tails.

Cheep Cheeps (originally called Cheep-Sheeps and later Cheep-Cheeps) along with Podoboos, Goombas, Spinies, Chain Chomps, Pokeys, Thwimps, Thwomps, Bloopers, Shy Guys, and Piranha Plants, are enemies in The Legend of Zelda: Link's Awakening. They can be found in water in sidescrolling areas, usually swimming back-and-forth, though in some areas they jump straight upwards.
In the Nintendo Switch version, Cheep Cheeps appear dark brown and can be caught in the Fishing Hole, and a figure of one can be won in the Trendy Game after clearing the Angler's Tunnel and placed in Ulrira's house. The text that appears upon acquiring the figure reads, "You got a Cheep Cheep figure! Disclaimer: cannot actually fly."

Cheep Cheeps are enemies in The Legend of Zelda: Oracle of Seasons and The Legend of Zelda: Oracle of Ages. They appear as they do in Link's Awakening. Oracle of Ages also has a miniboss named Angler Fish, which resembles a large Cheep Cheep and is encountered in the same segment as Cheep Cheeps in Jabu-Jabu's Belly.

Cheep Cheeps are enemies in The Legend of Zelda: Four Swords Adventures. They are encountered swimming in sidescrolling areas. Big Cheep Cheeps also appear, and charge forward if they see a Link.

Cheep Cheeps appear in the Fishing mode of AR Games as a possible species to catch if the ? Block AR Card is placed on a red surface.

Cheep Cheeps cameo in the Wii U and Nintendo Switch versions of Lego City Undercover. They may appear if the player goes fishing, and also appear in the aquarium under Crescent Park.

In the Super Mario Mash-up in Minecraft, Salmon is replaced by Cheep Cheeps.

Cheep Cheeps alongside Bloopers, Eep Cheeps, and Cheep Chomps were among the fish that could be caught in the Fishing Tourney #12 for Animal Crossing: Pocket Camp on March 14, 2019, as part of the Super Mario crossover event for Mario Day. A Cheep Cheep balloon attached to a Brick Block could also be obtained as special furniture after reaching the 300, 400, 500, or 650 cm milestone.

Though most Cheep Cheep bios note their prevalence underwater, some also point out the Cheep Cheeps' ability to jump out of water.