Cheese appears in the Super Mario franchise occasionally as an interactive object or an item.

The Super Mario Bros. comic "A Mouser in the Houser" features the Sacred Cylinder of Cheese, an object considered to be of importance by the Mushroom King.

Flies carrying rancid cheese periodically enter the arena during while battling the Pesce in Wario Land 3. The cheese can be dropped into the water if Wario bumps the flies. The Pesce will eat the cheese if it drops nearby, and Pesce is defeated after eating three pieces.

There is a course in the Mario Kart series largely consisting of cheese, Cheese Land, debuting in Mario Kart: Super Circuit and returning as a classic course in Mario Kart 8 and Mario Kart 8 Deluxe. Several cheese structures appear in the background and off-road areas of the course. The course's moon-like setting, which is removed in its later appearance, may be a reference to the misconception that the moon is made of cheese. The Mario Kart 8 iteration adds small blocks of cheese in the off-road areas that function as minor breakable obstacles, and there are several large cheese blocks in the off-road areas that can be crashed into.

In Luigi's Mansion and its Nintendo 3DS remake, Luigi can scan cheese with the Game Boy Horror's Search Function to reveal a Gold Mouse, which he can suck up to get treasure, including jewels. Cheese only appears in darkened rooms, and disappears when the room is lit up. However, unlike with Speedy Spirits, Luigi gets a second chance to catch the Gold Mice he missed, during the Blackout. In total, there are five pieces of cheese: the Study has one behind the desk, the Fortune-teller's Room has one behind Madame Clairvoya's chair; the Dining Room has one under the chair next to Mr. Luggs; the Tea Room has one behind the left table; and lastly the Safari Room has one between the crates and the armchair.
The Study has a book called Darkness is Their Cheese by C. Parmesan that talks about the effects of cheese in the dark on Golden Mice:

Ghost mice are drawn to darkness as real mice are drawn to cheese... In the dark, they shine gold with contentment. I must try to get close to one before the lights come back on.

In Super Mario Odyssey, blocks of cheese called Cheese Rocks appear throughout the Luncheon Kingdom as platforms and obstacles. They can be broken via the frying pans thrown by Hammer Bros, and are sometimes used to cover up various items such as golden turnips, Lever Switches, and Moon Shards. They are also used to block some stairs near the Path to the Meat Plateau, which are used in the Under the Cheese Rocks mission. According to the Luncheon Kingdom's brochure, the Cheese Rocks are formed because they are left near lava and dries out completely.

In the Nintendo 3DS remake of Mario & Luigi: Bowser's Inside Story, Bowser uses cheese to restore BP instead of Syrup Jars. They recover fifteen Brawl Points when eaten. There are stronger variants of regular cheese: Super Cheese, Ultra Cheese, and Miracle Cheese. Also, Bowser's equivalent of the Star Candy is the Cheesy Drumstick.