Chef Torte is a Torte with a famous reputation for baking cake, appearing in Super Mario RPG: Legend of the Seven Stars and its remake. He works in the kitchen at the Marrymore chapel baking wedding cakes. Chef Torte takes his work very seriously, and he constantly bosses around his apprentice and even insults him as the two cook. Additionally, if Mario jumps on the wedding cake while Chef Torte is making it, Chef Torte will scold him, causing Mario to fall off the cake.
During the events of the game, Chef Torte is requested to bake a wedding cake for Booster and Princess Peach's wedding. The chef and his apprentice eventually complete the cake, but when they arrive to the wedding ceremony, they discover that Mario has disrupted the wedding and rescued Princess Peach. Chef Torte is angry that his cake will not be eaten (ignoring or not knowing that Raz and Raini were to get married before Booster and his cronies kicked them out of the wedding hall), and he and his apprentice attack Mario and his allies.
In battle, Chef Torte attacks by running up to one of Mario's allies and furiously slapping them. Additionally, the chef and his apprentice cannot be defeated (as they are needed purely for purposes of the story). Mario and his allies, however, can attack and damage the cake. Eventually, after taking enough hits, the cake will start to move. Apparently, Chef Torte's effort helped make the cake come alive, although Chef Torte and his apprentice retreat. Later, after Mario and his allies defeat the cake, when Mario returns to Marrymore, Chef Torte is seen working on another wedding cake.
In the post-game, the cake can be refought upon returning to the wedding hall. As in the original battle, Chef Torte is invincible, although he aids the cake by igniting its candles each turn and allowing it to use Celebration Shot if all candles are lit which deals 9999 damage to all active party members. After defeating Culex 3D then defeating Smithy in the remake, Chef Torte and his apprentice appear in the credits scene, sitting in the front row bench of the Marrymore chapel for Booster and Valentina's wedding.
Chef Torte speaks with a thick German accent in his dialogue, similarly to Dyllis.