The Circuit Special is a kart in the Mario Kart series. The kart resembles a Formula One car with headlights and wheels attached to the front wing. It specifically resembles the one seen in F1 Race, a Nintendo game on the Famicom and Game Boy. It also looks similar to the Sprinter from Mario Kart Wii. In fact, its Dutch name is the Sprinter 2.0, making it a successor to the Sprinter, as well as the B Dasher, which is called "Sprinter" in Dutch. Its Russian name also means Sprinter when transliterated to English. The emblem is located on the hood.

The Circuit Special debuts in Mario Kart 8 as an unlockable kart body. It offers a speed and weight boost, but it hinders in acceleration and especially traction; it shares its stats with the Sports Coupe, Mach 8, B Dasher, P-Wing, and Gold Standard. It shares the same sound with the Sports Coupe and is one of the few vehicles in the game to have a supercharged engine that is shaped like a DOHC V6 engine and to have one from a Formula One car, along with the first four of the aforementioned karts.
A CPU-controlled Yoshi, Rosalina, Metal Mario, and Pink Gold Peach may occasionally use this kart body with the Standard tires.
In Mario Kart 8 Deluxe, the Circuit Special is available from the start. CPU Bowser, King Boo, and Petey Piranha occasionally use this body, with Bowser using the Monster tires, and King Boo and Petey Piranha using the Standard tires, respectively. Yoshi and Metal Mario no longer use this body, and Pink Gold Peach now uses the body with the Sponge tires instead. CPU Lemmy and Luigi are also seen using this kart body, with Lemmy using the Standard tires and Luigi using the Slick tires instead. The Circuit Special now only shares stats with the B Dasher and the P-Wing, only boosting ground speed, anti-gravity speed, weight, and invincibility (as of version 2.2.0) while lowering every other stat.
Luigi's feet may sometimes clip through the bottom of the Circuit Special, which can be seen when the kart tumbles over.

The Circuit Special has four different varnish colors. They are similar to the Sport Bike. While the main sponsors change between liveries, all models carry Mushroom Piston-branded engines.

The Circuit Special returns in Mario Kart Tour, where it is classified as a High-End kart. Here, it uses the Slick tires from Mario Kart 8 and Mario Kart 8 Deluxe. Unlike previous appearances, it only appears with a blue and white color, regardless of the driver. This is due to the fact that the black, purple and yellow version and the green version are reserved to two variants of the kart called the Black Circuit and Green Circuit, respectively, both of which also have the High-End classification. The Circuit Special increases the duration of Slipstream boosts and the amount of points earned for performing Slipstreams.
The Circuit Special was introduced to the game in the Tokyo Tour and has since appeared in the First Pipe and Second Pipe of each tour. Starting with the Cooking Tour, it is also available in the Daily Selects shop. The table below lists other means through which the Circuit Special could be obtained by tour.