Clampys, originally generically referred to as "clams," are giant oyster enemies that debuted in Super Mario Galaxy. They open and close their mouth-like valves periodically, often revealing items inside their cavities. The player character can collect these items, but they must swim away quickly before the Clampy snaps shut. Clampys have cartoonish eyes on the outside of their bodies and pearly, iridescent exteriors. The English name "Clampy" is likely a play on "clam" and "clamp," with the diminutive suffix "-y." 

One cream-colored Clampy first appears in Super Mario Galaxy, being encountered in the Beach Bowl Galaxy. Much like the clams in Super Mario 64, it holds treasures inside such as Star Chips and coins, depending on the mission selected.

Clampys are enemies appearing only in World 1-4 and in a secret area in World 4-1 in New Super Mario Bros. Wii. They were slightly reshaped, and now display a purple coloration with darker wavy stripes, which would stick to them in most future appearances. They have coins or 1-Up Mushrooms between their valves in order to lure a character close so they can attack them. If a Clampy closes its shell in on a character, it will trap them inside for a brief moment and damage them before opening back up. However, their top shells (when closed) and the inside of their cavities (when open) are safe to tread on. In general, Clampys spawn in mid-water and slowly sink to a ground underneath, after which they begin their routine of opening and closing their valves. One Clampy in World 1-4 slips into a pit after touching the ground.

A single Clampy appears in Super Mario Galaxy 2, behaving and looking identically to the species' initial appearance in Super Mario Galaxy. It appears on the seabed in Starshine Beach Galaxy.

Clampys, referred to as Giant Clams, appear in New Super Mario Bros. U and its port, where they act exactly like they do in New Super Mario Bros. Wii. One can be found in a secret area of Waterspout Beach, while multiple inhabit World Coin-5. They do not return in New Super Luigi U.

Clampys appear in the Cheep Cheep Lagoon and GCN Daisy Cruiser racecourses in Mario Kart 7. They are obstacles that are found only underwater, containing coins and Item Boxes between their valves that racers can pick up, taking care not to be trapped by the Clampy's valves. Racers can perform tricks on them when they are open.

Clampys reappear in 3DS Cheep Cheep Lagoon, GCN Daisy Cruiser, and Piranha Plant Cove 2 and 3 in Mario Kart Tour, acting the same as they did in Mario Kart 7. They are able to spin out drivers in a Bubble without popping their Bubble. The Item Boxes that Clampys produce, if broken, do not respawn immediately unlike other Item Boxes.

Clampys return in the Booster Course Pass DLC for Mario Kart 8 Deluxe, where they once again appear in GCN Daisy Cruiser and Piranha Plant Cove, acting the same as they did in previous entries.

Clampys appear in background of the board Whimsical Waters in Mario Party 10, as well as in the minigame Cheep Cheep Check, where they are used by the solo player to disperse large clusters of bubbles meant to distract the other players from counting the Cheep Cheeps.

A Clampy appears as an Assistant in Dr. Mario World. When equipped in stage mode, there is a chance that the rainbow meter is filled by three sections when the stage starts. In versus mode, it grants doctors an extra chance to defend against opponent's attacks. 

Card Number: 34 (Normal), F19 (Silver)