A classic course, formerly known as an Extra Track in Mario Kart: Super Circuit and as a Retro Course from Mario Kart DS to Mario Kart 7, is a course that appears in a Mario Kart game following its introduction. They first appeared in Mario Kart: Super Circuit in Extra Cups, which include the Extra Mushroom, Flower, Lightning, Star, and Special Cups, each containing four courses from Super Mario Kart. Classic courses systematically appear in every console Mario Kart game since Mario Kart DS, with the Shell Cup, Banana Cup, Leaf Cup, and Lightning Cup each featuring four classic courses from various games of the series. Starting with the DLC cups in Mario Kart 8, classic courses can appear in the same cup as new courses. The Booster Course Pass DLC for Mario Kart 8 Deluxe consists mostly of classic courses, which are also referred to as Booster Courses.
Starting with Mario Kart DS, classic courses are distinguished by a prefix in their names indicating the game they originate from. These prefixes are mostly abbreviations of the name of the console that the game was released on: "SNES" ("SFC" in Japan) referring to Super Mario Kart, "N64" to Mario Kart 64, "GBA" to Mario Kart: Super Circuit, "GCN" ("GC" in Japan) to Mario Kart: Double Dash!!, "DS" to Mario Kart DS, "Wii" to Mario Kart Wii, "3DS" to Mario Kart 7, and "Tour" to Mario Kart Tour (only for city courses). The "Tour" prefix is excluded from the Tencent release of the Booster Course Pass in mainland China, likely due to Mario Kart Tour's unavailability on app distribution platforms in that region.
Prior to Mario Kart 8, classic courses were often near-identical to their original counterparts, usually only receiving graphical updates, such as expanding the space and blocks in SNES and GBA courses. In Mario Kart DS, however, some classic courses were scaled down in graphics and gameplay elements due to limitations of the Nintendo DS, most notably those originally from Mario Kart: Double Dash!!. In Mario Kart Wii and Mario Kart 7, classic courses appear almost identical to their original versions, besides added underwater and gliding sections in the latter game. Starting in Mario Kart 8, most classic courses are completely redesigned with HD graphics, usually featuring newer mechanics such as underwater, gliding, and (except in Mario Kart Tour) anti-gravity. They also tend to feature other new details, including completely new backgrounds or even changes to the track's layout. Additionally, Mario Kart 8 features newly remastered music for all classic courses, whereas classic courses in previous Mario Kart games tend to retain their original music (though they were sometimes altered due to system limitations, primarily for the Game Boy Advance and Nintendo DS). Mario Kart Tour's classic courses vary in similarity to their original versions, with some closely approximating the original courses and others making changes more in line with the overhauls seen in Mario Kart 8. The music is almost always either the original arrangement or from Mario Kart 7, with the only exceptions being the SNES Choco Island courses, which use the Mario Kart DS arrangement; the SNES Ghost Valley courses, GBA Cheep-Cheep Island, and DS Peach Gardens, which use the Mario Kart Wii arrangements; and GBA courses barring Peach Circuit, Luigi Circuit, the Bowser's Castle courses, Cheep-Cheep Island, and Lakeside Park, as well as DS Mario Circuit, which all use new arrangements (although the reused music is less compressed than in previous games).

Mario Kart Tour features 72 courses from previous entries (over half of all courses in the entire series prior to Mario Kart 8), being the most of any Mario Kart game. Among them, all of Mario Kart 7's classic courses reappear. It also features a new reroute of N64 Kalimari Desert named N64 Kalimari Desert 2, which is categorized as a classic course in-game. Courses in Mario Kart Tour are not arranged into set cups like in the other games, as the cups and available courses change between each tour. The courses below are listed alongside their debut tours and dates.
While Sky-High Sundae, Yoshi's Island, and Squeaky Clean Sprint were added to this game after being added to the Mario Kart 8 Deluxe – Booster Course Pass, they are not officially considered classic courses in either game and are instead labeled and marketed as new courses for both games (though internal data identifies them as being from Mario Kart Tour).
For a more detailed list of the classic courses in this game, see Mario Kart Tour § Classic.

While no classic battle courses appear in Mario Kart: Super Circuit, unused tilemaps and minimaps exist for all four battle courses from Super Mario Kart. Unlike other courses in the game, which are stored in chunks, these are stored in one piece, the same way Super Mario Kart stores them.

Mario Kart DS is the first game to have classic battle courses. Unlike the classic race courses, these battle courses do not have their original themes nor prefixes denoting their console of origin; future games in the series would change this, having their original themes and prefixes for classic battle courses in the same manner as race courses.