Cloud Lifts, also simply called clouds, are objects in the Super Mario series. These Semisolid Platforms are movable platforms in most games, except in Yoshi's Story and Super Mario Bros. Wonder, where they are stationary.

In Super Mario Bros. 3, Cloud Lifts appear only in World 6-2. There, they move to the left and are the main mode of transportation in that level.

In Super Mario Land 2: 6 Golden Coins, several clouds appear in the final level of the Tree Zone, Final Boss: The Big Bird. These lifts have blinking eyes and simply move back and forth.

While Cloud Lifts do not appear in New Super Mario Bros. Wii, Bouncy Clouds that act as a substitute are introduced.

In New Super Mario Bros. U, Cloud Lifts are long platforms that move to the right when initially landed on. Several of them appear in Land of Flying Blocks.

In New Super Luigi U, only one Cloud Lift appears in the level Bowser Jr. Showdown. It works the same as it does in New Super Mario Bros. U. Luigi and/or the others start the level jumping on top of it. It has an Arrow Sign on top of it, and it cannot be destroyed by the Mecha Hand.

In Super Mario 3D World and Super Mario 3D World + Bowser's Fury, they are usually still, though some move horizontally or vertically. Some Cloud Lifts are invisible and can be seen only by ground-pounding near them or shaking the Wii U GamePad.

Cloud Lifts reappear in Super Mario Maker 2, where they can be used exclusively in the Super Mario 3D World game style. They replace Lifts and Flimsy Lifts from the other game styles. Like Lifts and Flimsy Lifts, their length can be changed. They can move vertically or horizontally in all four cardinal directions.

In Super Mario Bros. Wonder, Cloud Lifts have a smiling face design and are stationary, acting as wider versions of Cloud Blocks. The large cloud used by the Lakitu trio looks like a big version of it.

In Yoshi's Story, Cloud Lifts are stationary platforms that come in large, medium, and small sizes. They are common floating objects in outdoor levels.

Cloud Lifts reappear in the Training Course in The Super Mario Bros. Movie.