Cloud Blocks, originally referred to as small clouds, are semisolid blocks mainly used as platforms for bonus areas above the ground. Cloud Blocks have the same appearance as Lakitu's Cloud, though slightly smaller. Cloud Lifts usually serve as a bigger version of Cloud Blocks, but unlike Cloud Blocks, Cloud Lifts are not stationary in most games.

Cloud Blocks first appear in Super Mario Bros. They appear in World 2-1, in the bonus area accessed by hitting the secret beanstalk halfway in the level. Unlike in later games, the Cloud Blocks in this game are solid.

In Super Mario Bros. 3, Cloud Blocks first appear in the sky in World 1-1, reached by flying to the top of the level with a Super Leaf. From this game onwards, Mario can pass through them from the bottom.
Giant versions of Cloud Blocks also appear in World 4.

In Super Mario World, Cloud Blocks first appear in Yoshi's Island 1, where they are used to transport a 1-Up Mushroom to Mario or Luigi.

In Super Mario Maker and Super Mario Maker for Nintendo 3DS, Cloud Blocks have a new design for the New Super Mario Bros. U game style, and in every game style, they wear goggles in the Underwater theme. Cloud Blocks can be destroyed by Thwomps, Bowser's ground pound in Super Mario Bros. 3-styled levels, and Skewers.

Cloud Blocks appear in Super Mario Run. They have exactly the same appearance as the New Super Mario Bros. U style of Super Mario Maker. Cloud Blocks appear in a number of courses, often as an accent placed in hard to reach areas. For instance, their first appearance is in Up and Over while Black Coins are present, and they are used to place a Black Coin in an very high position. However, Cloud Blocks are sometimes in other courses as standard blocks. Cloud Blocks make prominent appearances in Bullet Bill Barrage and Big Spiny Blitz. Bullet Bill Barrage has most of the course consist of Cloud Blocks. As of version 3.0.4, they also appear as platforms in Remix 10's cloud themed bonus course.

Cloud Blocks reappear in Super Mario Maker 2 as placeable course elements under the "Terrain" category, having the same behavior of the original game. They are available in the Super Mario 3D World game style, having a similar appearance to the Cloud Cannons from the source game, and they do not wear goggles in the Underwater theme of that game style. Aside from being able to be destroyed by the same methods of the original Wii U game, they now can be disintegrated by digging them like soft sand from Super Mario Bros. 2 by SMB2 Mario.

Cloud Blocks appear in Super Mario Bros. Wonder, first appearing in Welcome to the Flower Kingdom! in an area accessed using a Propeller Flower, which is found in a Hidden Block.

In Yoshi's Story, Cloud Blocks are used as Rail Lifts in the stage of the same name. As such, they never appear stationary.

In Super Paper Mario, a line of Cloud Blocks can be found floating above Mount Lineland, which are accessed by hitting an obscured Brick Block to climb up a ladder. Each cloud has a Coin on top and can be stood on in both 2-D and 3-D.

In The Super Mario Bros. Movie, two Cloud Blocks can be seen for a brief moment floating beside several Brick Blocks while Princess Peach is running through the Training Course.