Cogs, also known as gears, are large, perpetually rotating platforms and obstacles in the Super Mario franchise. In many appearances, they crush the player character if they are between its teeth.

Gears in Super Mario Land 2: 6 Golden Coins are Semisolid Platforms in the first stage of the Mario Zone, appearing in both horizontal and vertical types. There are large horizontal gears that are motionless and have no platform gimmick, and small revolving ones that move Mario from left to right. The vertical gears also come in a slightly bigger motionless variety and one that moves Mario downward until he reaches a midway point that makes him fall off.

Cogs in New Super Mario Bros. Wii are interactive platforms in World 1-Castle, where they appear in two different sizes. If the player remains under one, they are squished and lose a life. Cogs in the level are required to go up to where the boss door is. Additionally, cog-like wheels can be found in World 6-Airship.

Cogs in New Super Mario Bros. U appear in Crushing-Cogs Tower, functioning as platforms that can be used to reach the top of the tower and fight Boom Boom. Cogs in New Super Luigi U appear in the game's equivalent, Flame-Gear Tower, as well as in Hot Cogs. Cogs in the Nintendo Switch enhanced port return in all of the aforementioned levels.

In Super Mario 3D World and its Nintendo Switch reissue, cogs made out of cookies appear prominently in Cookie Cogworks, where they serve as platforms. These cogs must be traversed horizontally and vertically in order to reach the end of the course. Some cookie cogs in the vertical sections have Piranha Plants nested inbetween the cogs' teeth, which have to be avoided while climbing the cogs. A cookie cog is also located at the end of the course that allow Mario and friends to reach the top of the Goal Pole. Another rotating cookie cog, laid on its side, appears in a hidden area found in the distance beyond the Goal Pole's area.

Sprockets in Yoshi's Story appear in the Mecha Castle. They are wooden and can make a Yoshi lose a life only if the Yoshi is trapped between two of them. Most of them are singular and only move in response to the Yoshi's movements.

Cogs in Yoshi's Crafted World are objects in Mr. Geary's Factory, functioning identically as in the Super Mario Bros. side-scrolling series. Additionally, an animate cog known as Mr. Geary is fought at the end of said level.

Cogs in Wario World are platforms located in the basement of Horror Manor, against the back wall of the room they appear in. Wario must jump between them using climbable chains hanging from the ceiling. Cogs have Glue Globes attached to them, allowing Wario to ride them as they turn without standing on top. Two types of cogs appear: smooth, rounded ones and a more jagged variety with rectangular teeth.

Gears appear as platforms in the X-Naut Fortress in Paper Mario: The Thousand-Year Door. They exist in the background of the final room before the room containing Magnus von Grapple 2.0, a room identified as the X-Naut factory by Goombella, and Mario must traverse them in order to reach Magnus 2.0.

Cogs in Donkey Kong Jungle Beat are obstacles in the Clock Tower that Donkey Kong must maneuver a Helibird around.

Gears in Donkey Kong Country Returns appear primarily in Gear Getaway as obstacles to the Rocket Barrel.

Giant gray gears with small teeth appear as rotating platforms in the Mario Kart DS course Tick-Tock Clock. Four of these gears appear in the lower portion of the track, each rotating in alternating directions, and have to be driven over to progress through the course. Drivers have to swivel around in this section in order to drive in the same direction the gears are turning towards, in order to avoid being slowed down. The rotation of these gears change direction per lap. Two more gears, protruding through the road like wheels, appear near the end of the course, also rotating in different directions and alternating per lap. Drivers can drive up the gear turning forwards for a speed boost, but will slow down on a gear turning backwards, much like a Conveyor Belt in later titles.
Tick-Tock Clock returns as a classic course in Mario Kart 8 and Mario Kart 8 Deluxe, where the gears behave the same, but look drastically different. The gears in the lower portion of the course now have larger teeth and wider gaps, and are colored blue and red. The teeth are large enough to be tricked on, and feature chevrons accordingly, as if they are ramps. The lower portion is now also preceded by two Glide Ramps which alternate between active and inactive. An active Glide Ramp can be used to glide over the gears, avoiding the necessity to swivel through most of them altogether. The gears protruding through the end of the course are still gray, but feature wider teeth. Several gears are also featured prominently in the background throughout the revamped course.