Coin Boxes, formerly known as ? Boxes, are objects introduced in Super Mario 3D Land. Players that use them will receive a great but limited number of coins as they move.

In Super Mario 3D Land, ? Boxes are only found in World 8-1, World 8-4 and Special 1-3. They look just like ? Blocks. Like Propeller Boxes, ? Boxes are worn by Mario or Luigi on their head, and do not let them throw fireballs or boomerangs, or turn into a statue. It cannot be taken off unless they hit an enemy. If Mario makes it to the Goal Pole with the ? Box, it disappears and gives an extra life. While wearing a ? Box, Mario will gain coins while he moves.

In New Super Mario Bros. 2, similar objects known as Gold Blocks appear, which are usually revealed by hitting Coin Blocks enough times, and give Mario coins at a much faster rate than the ? Boxes. Unlike ? Boxes, however, a Gold Block will disappear once 100 coins have been collected from it.

? Boxes (now also referred to under their current name) return in Super Mario 3D World and its Nintendo Switch port Super Mario 3D World + Bowser's Fury, now shinier than a regular ? Block. This time, they work just like Gold Blocks from New Super Mario Bros. 2, though they retain the ability restrictions (including the inability to turn into a statue) and the 1-Up prize by touching the Goal Pole from Super Mario 3D Land.

Coin Boxes reappear exclusively under their current name in Mario Kart Tour as the special skill of Mario (Hakama), Peach (Vacation), Pink Gold Peach, Pauline (Party Time), Rosalina (Swimwear), Mario (Tuxedo), Yoshi (Gold Egg), Daisy (Thai Dress), Mario (King), Luigi (Gold Knight), Gold Koopa (Freerunning), Dry Bones (Gold), King Boo (Gold), Bowser (Santa), King Bob-omb (Gold), Kamek, Meowser, Chargin' Chuck (Gold), Petey Piranha (Gold), Larry (Wintertime), Wiggler (Gold), the Gold and ? Block Mii Racing Suits, and Gold Mario exclusively in Coin Rush during the Valentine's Tour. They widely spew 40 coins onto the track when used. During a Coin Box Frenzy, coins surround the player. When Coin Box+ is active, it will additionally spray Red Coins out as well. When the racer collects a Red Coin, it is treated like two coins. Coin Boxes received a minor redesign in that their edges and corners are more flat rather than rounded, and the holes in their sides' corners are absent. It is also the special skill of the most drivers, with a total of 22 drivers or 23 drivers if Gold Mario is counted.