A Coin Block (alternatively coin block), also called a Ten-Coin Block (alternatively Ten Coin Block), Multi-Coin, Multi-Coin Block, 10-Coin Block (alternatively 10 Coin Block), or Coin Box, is a block that can be hit by the player character multiple times, giving out one coin per hit. Coin Blocks can resemble either Brick Blocks or ? Blocks.

Coin Blocks have appeared in nearly every game of the Super Mario series, debuting in Super Mario Bros., with ? Block-styled Coin Blocks debuting in Super Mario Land. In most games, there is a time limit for how long a Coin Block continues to give the player coins instead of actually having a set number of coins. If the player strikes a Coin Block fast enough, they can get about 10 coins, which is usually the most coins a player can get from a Coin Block, though quite a few games make it possible to obtain more. After the time limit has ended, the block will give one last coin, giving each block a minimum of two coins. Starting from New Super Mario Bros. and in games where the player is able to ground-pound, ground-pounding onto the Coin Block and holding the button that activated the Ground Pound allows the player to collect coins at a faster rate, though only if they are in a powered-up form.
In certain games, Coin Blocks give extra prizes if they are hit at least 10 times fast enough, including producing Super Mushrooms or Gold Blocks.

In Super Mario Bros. Deluxe's Challenge Mode, some Coin Blocks release Red Coins.

In Super Mario World: Super Mario Advance 2, unlike in the original version, Coin Blocks spew out all their coins at once if hit by Luigi.

In New Super Mario Bros., by ground-pounding on a Coin Block and holding the button that activated the Ground Pound, the player can collect coins at an increased rate, if they are in a powered-up form. If the action is done long enough, they can produce Super Mushrooms. This mechanic continues in later games where the player can perform a Ground Pound.

Only ? Block-styled Coin Blocks appear in Super Mario Galaxy and Super Mario Galaxy 2. They are unaffected by Ground Pounds in these games.

In New Super Mario Bros. Wii and New Super Mario Bros. U, five additional coins fly out before a Coin Block turns into an Empty Block.

In New Super Mario Bros. 2, a Coin Block turns into a Gold Block that Mario or Luigi can wear, producing up to 100 coins, unless he gets damaged or finishes the level before collecting the maximum number. If hit in any other fashion, or by a Gold Block-wearer, the Gold Block will instead spew out 50 coins to grab before disappearing.

Both ? Block- and Brick Block-styled Coin Blocks appear in Super Mario 3D Land and Super Mario 3D World. While they work as they do in the 2D Super Mario games, Mario cannot hold his ground pound to collect more coins in the former game. On rare occasions, Mario may find a wide ? Block-styled Coin Block, which allows him to get three times more coins than an average Coin Block would give him. Flying Coin Blocks, Flying ? Blocks that give multiple coins before losing their wings, appear as well. These games also have Coin Blocks that shoot coins onto the ground, as well as Coin Blocks with infinite coins.
Super Mario 3D Land and Super Mario 3D World also feature ? Block-styled Coin Blocks that Mario can wear over his body, called Coin Boxes. In Super Mario 3D Land, these boxes let Mario slowly collect infinite coins when moving while wearing them, but in Super Mario 3D World, they act just like Gold Blocks while worn. Like Propeller Boxes, these blocks are lost once the wearer is injured or finishes the level, giving an extra life in the latter case.

Coin Blocks reappear in Super Mario Maker, Super Mario Maker for Nintendo 3DS, and Super Mario Maker 2, having the same functionality as in other games. They can be created by placing a coin inside a ? Block or Brick Block in editing mode. However, the Coin Blocks in the New Super Mario Bros. U style (and the Super Mario 3D World style in Super Mario Maker 2) work the same way as they do in the classic Super Mario games (and the corresponding styles).

? Block- and Brick Block-styled Coin Blocks reappear in Super Mario Odyssey. Throwing Cappy at a Coin Block and holding him in place allows the coins to be collected at a faster rate, similar to the technique introduced in New Super Mario Bros. with the Ground Pound.
In addition, Coin Blocks appear in 2D sections taking their appearance from Super Mario Bros.

In Super Mario World 2: Yoshi's Island, Coin Blocks appear as red Egg Blocks with animated spots. They give out endless coins and Stars when the player plays as Superstar Mario, but once the form wears off, the blocks become Dotted Line Blocks.

In Yoshi's Island DS, certain M Blocks function as traditional Coin Blocks.

In Yoshi's Story, some ? Blocks act like Coin Blocks. If all ten coins are collected, a melon appears.

Coin Blocks appear in the Paper Mario series, working as they do in the Super Mario games.

Super Paper Mario reveals Coin Blocks to have images of flashing coins on their sides, as seen when Mario flips into 3-D. Their Tattle reads, "That's a coin block. Every time you hit it, a coin will come out..."
By using Bowser's fire breath, it is possible to collect as many as 42 coins from a Coin Block; however, very few blocks within the game are situated properly to be in range of this attack.

The Mario & Luigi series also features Coin Blocks, and it introduces several variations, such as Bros. Blocks, Random Blocks, and Rally Blocks.

Coin Blocks were redesigned as one of the square panel-type objects found in Mario & Wario. If Wanda uses her wand on a Coin Block, the player gets a certain number of coins. Wanda can keep using the wand on the Coin Block until there are no coins remaining.

In the Mario Party series, Hidden Coin Blocks may appear if a space holding one is landed on. They also appear in various minigames, such as Coin Cache and Coin Block Bash.
In Mario Party DS, players must manually hit the block to gain coins in five or ten seconds. Also, Block Sensors make a Hidden Block appear on the space the user lands on.
In Mario Party 8, Coin Blocks are seen when the player uses a Bitsize Candy. Then, the character that uses the Candy hits Coin Blocks with three coins inside each for every space they move until their turn is done. In Duel Battle and Star Battle Arena, Coin Blocks appear in certain areas on the boards. If the player runs into a Coin Block, then they can hit it for one, five, or 10 coins. On Goomba’s Booty Boardwalk, if the player does not have 50 coins, Captain Goomba lets the player hit a Coin Block before he sends them back to the start.

In one scene in The Super Mario Bros. Movie, Toads can be seen collecting Coins from booths with Coin Blocks, which are yellow and have a coin symbol printed on the side like in Super Paper Mario.

In the 2006 version of Nintendo Monopoly, Coin Block spaces and cards replace the traditional Community Chest ones. In the 2010 version, Brick Blocks are used instead.
On the Wii Shop Channel, the loading screen for downloading any title is Mario or Luigi hitting Coin Blocks and collecting coins, sometimes in his Fire form.
A single Coin Block appears in Luigi's Mansion 3 in The Dance Hall. At the far left of the main hall, either Luigi or Gooigi must use the Poltergust G-00 to spin a record on the wall to make the block come out of the wall, while the other repeatedly uses the Burst move under it to make some coins come out as well as a gem; the block becomes empty when the gem appears.