Coin Coffers are enemies introduced in Super Mario 3D Land. They have small eyes on top of their head, are round, have a light green color, have wide golden-lipped mouths, and slightly resemble both coin purses and frogs. Their name is a pun on "coffer", which is a name for a container used for storing money or valuables, and "cough", referring to how coins come from their mouths. They replace Moneybags from Super Mario 64.

Coin Coffers are enemies in Super Mario Land. They react similarly to the Moneybags by attempting to run away from the player. In Super Mario 3D Land, they contain ten coins. Hitting a Coin Coffer in any way causes it to drop a coin, dazing it, and after five hits, it spits out the rest of the coins it contains before it is defeated. Ground Pounding one causes it to spit out all of its coins before being defeated. When hit by Invincible Mario, its ten coins are dropped in a ring shape. Coin Coffers first appear out in the open in World 2-3. Some Coin Coffers are hidden under stones and bushes, like one in World 2-1 and two in World 4-1.

Coin Coffers are enemies in New Super Mario Bros. 2, spawning after activating a Red Coin Ring, dropping eight Red Coins as it bounces. If Mario defeats it before it can release all the Red Coins, they will all be dropped. They only appear in World Star-1 and World Star-7, as well as several DLC courses.

Coin Coffers are enemies in Super Mario 3D World and its port. They act similarly to how they do in Super Mario 3D Land. They were made invisible, and hide in certain hidden areas of levels. If the player uses the touch cursor or moves a character near an invisible Coin Coffer, its outline will appear. If a character approaches it, it will become nervous and start running away. Jumping on it will fully reveal it.

In the Bowser's Fury campaign of Super Mario 3D World + Bowser's Fury, Cat Coin Coffers appear in Fur Step Island, Fort Flaptrap, the Ruins region, Crisp Climb Castle, and the Wasteland region, acting identically to how they do in the main Super Mario 3D World campaign.

Coin Coffers are enemies in Super Mario Odyssey. They are encountered in the Wooded Kingdom and Sand Kingdom. They retain their invisibility ability from Super Mario 3D World. When they are visible to the player, Mario is able to capture one using Cappy. Coin Coffers are now immune to normal jumps, but they are also harmless to Mario, as running into one will not damage him. Despite this, they still seem to be considered an enemy, as taking a captured Coin Coffer near NPCs will cause them to react in fear.
When a Coin Coffer is captured for the first time an area is loaded, the player receives 30 Coins. (Capturing the same Coin Coffer repeatedly has no effect unless the area is reloaded.) Long falls reduce a Coin Coffer's ability to move. Mario is capable of standing on steep slopes when capturing a Coin Coffer. The player can spit out Coins as projectiles, with each shot reducing their coin total by one. If the player shakes the Joy Con, the Coin Coffer spits 20 Coins around it in a circle. Coins fly forward, but fall at the edge of their range. Coins are capable of destroying objects, even stone walls meant for the T-Rex and dirt meant for a Sherm.

Coin Coffers are enemies and potential allies in Puzzle & Dragons: Super Mario Bros. Edition. They come in green, red, blue, yellow, and purple colors, which represent which attribute they have; fire for red, water for blue, wood for green, light for yellow, and dark for purple.
Unlike most enemies, the Coin Coffer has a very high defense, which normally reduces any damage that it takes from a single attack to 1, but its HP is very low. Its attacks are also very weak, and it might run away from a battle. Defeating a Coin Coffer with a 10+ combo guarantees that it will join the player's party. Otherwise, it will only have a chance of joining the player when defeated.
All Coin Coffers have a Skill, Coin Boost, that doubles the amount of coins won during a single battle. Also, they are unique in that level 1 is their maximum level. Coin Coffer allies can give party members a significant amount of experience points whenever they are used to power them up, which can be handy for leveling up lower-leveled characters.
The player can also transform the Coin Coffers into a new variant of Coin Coffers, called King Coin Coffers by giving them six Super Mushrooms.

A Coin Coffer can be seen sleeping in Momma's giant busted-open piggybank at Barrendale Mesa in Mario + Rabbids Sparks of Hope.