Conkdors are large bird enemies that debuted in Super Mario 3D World. They idly stand on the ground and attack by slamming their heads forward when a player character crosses their path. They are incapable of flight and typically occur in desert-themed areas. Conkdors look somewhat similar to male ostriches, with long featherless necks, white ruffs, and dark blue bodies. Their beaks are conical weapons, and their backs are protected by spiked Koopa-like shells.
The physique of Conkdors and their means of attack are invocative of toy dipping birds. Their English name is a portmanteau of "conk" and "condor."

In Super Mario 3D World and its Nintendo Switch port Super Mario 3D World + Bowser's Fury, similarly to Thwomps, these enemies stand still on a certain spot (except in Sprawling Savanna Rabbit Run, where some are seen walking about), waiting for a player. Once one gets near it, it slams its beak on the ground, which can cause damage to the player. However, doing this leaves their neck and head exposed, and both can be jumped on to defeat the enemy. Conkdors can also rotate, following the player. The walking Conkdors move left and right until a player gets near them, which they will then give chase until they are within the range of their peck attack, which they stop to perform. Their beaks can be used to break Rock Blocks as well. Their glasses can be knocked off by tapping a Conkdor's head with the touch screen of the Wii U GamePad. They appear in Conkdor Canyon, Mystery House Melee, The Bowser Express, Rolling Ride Run, and Sprawling Savanna Rabbit Run.
In the Bowser's Fury mode of Super Mario 3D World + Bowser's Fury, cat variations of Conkdors are found in Scamper Shores. Like the other cat enemies found throughout Bowser's Fury, Cat Conkdors behave the same as regular Conkdors.

Conkdors reappear in Super Mario Maker 2 not as enemies but part of the background in the desert theme in the Super Mario 3D World style, where they are seen pecking the ground.

Conkdors reappear in Captain Toad: Treasure Tracker and its Nintendo Switch and Nintendo 3DS ports in the levels Cagey Conkdor Caper and Deep Space Gyromajig, behaving the same as they did in Super Mario 3D World. Additionally, in the bonus episode of the Wii U version of the game, Conkdors appear in the level Conkdor Canyon, returning from Super Mario 3D World.

Conkdors are obstacles in the minigame Conkdor de Force in Mario Party: Star Rush. Three Conkdors are on a center platform that spins around every round depending on which buttons are pressed. When the platform stops spinning the Conkdors slam their beaks down. If a Conkdor pecks a player, they lose a hit point.

Conkdors reappear in Super Mario Party in the minigame Rattle and Hmmm where players need to identify the correct enemy based on the vibrations made in the Joy-Con. They appear in a set alongside a Spike and a Bob-omb. They peck twice when they perform, creating the weakest vibration.

Conkdors are background characters in Mario Tennis Aces. They are spectators in the Bask Ruins court.

Conkdors appear in Dr. Mario World as assistants. In stage mode, they grant a chance that two objects, mainly viruses, transform into rotating cannons at the start of a stage. In versus mode, their effect is to transform two of the viruses that appear after all viruses are eliminated into rotating cannons. In both cases, the chances that the effects occur are greater at higher levels. They also appear on the World 24 map after an area has been cleared of viruses. A Conkdor assistant is rewarded after clearing the first area in World 24.

In Mario + Rabbids Sparks of Hope, a group of Conkdors appear in Paletteville, where they are shown eating the candy corn a Rabbid farmer is attempting to plant.