Croco is an anthropomorphic crocodile bandit from Super Mario RPG: Legend of the Seven Stars and the remake. His name is a clipping of "crocodile". He is a recurring villain in the game who is always stealing things from other people.
Mario first sees Croco being chased by Mallow. When Croco escapes, Mallow starts to cry, and a rainstorm begins. Mario talks to Mallow, who says that Croco stole his grandpa Frog Sage's Frog Coin that Mallow was supposed to trade for a Cricket Pie. Mario agrees to get the Frog Coin back for Mallow and Mallow joins Mario. They move on to Bandit's Way, where they spot Croco. They chase him, until he hops on blocks to get past the area with boulders blocking the paths. He claims he is "still 100 miles ahead", so Mario and Mallow continue to chase him through Bandit's Way until they hit a dead end. Croco goes into hiding. Mario and Mallow sneak behind him thrice to shock him. Just before Croco is able to run for a fourth time, Mallow yells at him to stop running. Croco claims he will give the coin back, but instead attacks. 
In battle, Croco attacks by ramming into a party member or throwing a bomb. He is weak to fire and, the first time he is hit with a fire attack such as Fireball, his tail catches on fire and he wastes a turn trying to put it out. At low HP, he uses a Weird Mushroom to heal, and after enough damage is dealt to Croco, Mallow again runs up to him and scolds him, threatening to give another belting to him if the coin is not returned. Croco gives it to the duo, hops around with anger, and leaves.
When Mario, Mallow, and Geno jump on a trampoline in the Mole Mines that is supposed to be an exit, Mario hits the ceiling of the mines and faints. Croco and a trio of Crooks then proceed to steal all of Mario's coins. After chasing Croco again, Mario, Mallow, and Geno battle him. In this fight, Croco throws bombs more frequently, and his tail no longer catches on fire. Halfway through the battle, Croco steals all of the party's items and his bomb-throwing attack is replaced with Monster Toss. The stolen items are returned and Croco drops a Microbomb at the end of the fight.
Croco makes a small appearance in Nimbus Land where Mario catches him looting houses and scares him off, causing Croco to drop a Signal Ring in the original game, and an Echo Signal Ring in the remake.
Croco does not appear again until near the end of the game in Bowser's Keep. This time he sells the player items and gives advice. 
In the ending sequence of the game, Croco is seen racing in the Mushroom Derby against Yoshi. Though he loses this race, he is consoled by the bystander Boshi and the two walk off together.