Crouching or ducking is a move that has been used in almost every Super Mario game. To do so, the player must simply press  in 2D games or a shoulder button (, , , , or  depending on the system) in 3D games. If the player releases the button, characters return to their standing position. It is used to duck under projectiles and slide under walls while moving. Crouching in midair has the player perform a Ground Pound instead (except while riding Yoshi in Super Mario Galaxy 2 or capturing an object/enemy in Super Mario Odyssey).
Jumping while crouching in 3D games lets the player do a Backward Somersault in place or Long Jump while dashing; Super Mario Sunshine is an exception, as Mario can perform a Backward Somersault, but he cannot crouch or long-jump. 
If characters jump while crouching in 2D games, Super Mario 3D Land, Super Mario 3D World, and Super Mario 3D World + Bowser's Fury, they can jump while still crouching. This can be utilized to get into one-block-tall holes. It can also be used within these tunnels to move slightly with each jump, but if the player releases the crouch button, the character performing it automatically goes towards the opposite direction they are facing. Small characters can crouch only in Super Mario Bros. 2, Super Mario World, Super Mario Land 2: 6 Golden Coins, the New Super Mario Bros. games, Super Mario 3D Land, Super Mario 3D World, Super Mario Maker (in the Super Mario World and New Super Mario Bros. U styles only), Super Mario Maker 2, and Super Mario Bros. Wonder.
In Super Mario Bros. 2, crouching for a small period of time charges up characters so they can jump higher (once per charge). This ability is called the Power Squat Jump. The Backward Somersault in Super Mario 3D Land, Super Mario 3D World, and the Super Mario 3D World style in Super Mario Maker 2 operates similarly to this. This jump itself can be used in SMB2 form in the Super Mario Bros. style in Super Mario Maker 2.
Outside the Super Mario platform games, Mario is able to crouch in the Super Smash Bros. series, as well as in Super Mario RPG: Legend of the Seven Stars and its Nintendo Switch remake through a small gap in a secret area in the Pipe Vault to collect a Frog Coin when / is pressed while he runs towards the gap. In Mario & Luigi: Dream Team, Giant Luigi is able to crouch to dodge one of the Zeekeeper's attacks.
In most 3D games (such as Super Mario 64), Super Mario Bros. Wonder, and the Super Smash Bros. games since Super Smash Bros. Brawl, attempting to move while in a crouch allows the character to crawl, which allows Mario to scale steep slopes and walk carefully on sloped surfaces. Only a number of characters in the Super Smash Bros. series can do this. In Super Mario 3D Land, Super Mario 3D World, and Super Mario Odyssey, the characters can also roll while crouching (by attacking while crouching), while in Super Mario 64 and Super Mario 64 DS, Mario (and Luigi, Yoshi, and Wario in the DS version) uses Sweep Kicks and Slide Kicks instead.