Culex is an optional hidden boss who appears in Super Mario RPG: Legend of the Seven Stars. Culex is a being from the alternate world of "Last Illusion," who desires to do battle with warriors from Mario's world. He appears to be a type of demon, having dark purple skin, red twisted horns and wings, a red mark along his torso, a jagged tail, and several crystals surrounding his waist. He also emanates what appears to be dark energy.
Culex serves as the game's superboss: alongside the Crystals, he is an even more powerful boss than the main story's antagonist, Smithy, as he has 4,096 HP, the second most of any encounter in the game (behind only Smithy's second phase). Culex, combined with the Crystals, has 12,396 HP, which exceeds both of Smithy's phases combined.
Culex's appearance contains many allusions to the Final Fantasy series; the creators of Final Fantasy, Square, also created Super Mario RPG. He is depicted in the hand-drawn pixel art style of the SNES Final Fantasy games, contrasting with the pre-rendered 3D models of the rest of the game. His overworld sprite is significantly smaller than how he appears in battle, which is another characteristic taken from Final Fantasy. The songs that play during his encounter and battle are arrangements of music from the Final Fantasy series.
In the Nintendo Switch remake, Super Mario RPG, Culex initially retains his original two-dimensional 16-bit appearance, offering a stark contrast to the game's revamped and updated 3D graphics. Additionally, he retains the music from the SNES version of the game even if the new soundtrack is set to play. However, a post-game rematch gives him a full model, named Culex 3D, along with the Crystals; this rematch also features rearranged music.

Culex resides in a cross-dimensional region found behind a sealed door in Monstro Town. According to one of his neighbors, a Piranha Plant, Culex is "always mumbling about Crystal-this and an Evil-that." The sealed door that leads to Culex requires a Shiny Stone, also mentioned by the Piranha Plant. When Mario enters the region, Culex greets him and explains his story. He then challenges the party to a battle, which the player can either accept or refuse.

In battle, Culex is aided by four Crystals – the Earth Crystal, the Fire Crystal, the Water Crystal, and the Wind Crystal. These Crystals have magical attacks that correspond with their elemental power. All four Crystals can be defeated independently before targeting Culex, but if Culex falls, any remaining Crystals shatter one by one on their next turn.
If Mario's party wins, Culex rewards Mario with the Quartz Charm. Culex then leaves Mario's dimension as Mario is transported back to Monstro Town. The door to Culex also vanishes, leaving a solid rock wall in its place.
In the Nintendo Switch remake, he can be fought again after beating Smithy. The fight itself becomes accessible once the Extra-Shiny Stone is collected after beating Johnny's post-game rematch. Because of the Star Road being repaired by Mario and his party, they consequentially granted the various wishes of powerful people. This ultimately included Culex, who wished to gain the power of the third dimension. He then drew them back to his realm to fight them in this new form. In this form, he uses either Meteor or Final Claw every five turns, the former deals damage equal to maximum HP minus 1 to all active party members and the latter deals 9999 damage to one party member. He also attacks twice each turn after all the Crystals are defeated. Similarly to Bowyer's battle, the , , or  buttons can be disabled for several turns, rendering the party unable to use the commands from those buttons. Finally, if the player attempts to defeat Culex while leaving any Crystals alive, the remaining Crystals sacrifice themselves to bring him back with full health.
After Mario's party wins, he is reduced back to his 2D sprite due to the forces of malevolence fading and is forced to retreat to regain his 3D form, although not before keeping count of the amount of turns it took to defeat him in battle. He will also provide the player with a Crystal Shard. After defeating Smithy once this battle is won, Culex appears in the credits scene with Monstermama and the other characters, briefly appearing in his 2D form behind the background.
One question that Dr. Topper can ask in Western languages is what Jinx, Goomhilde, and Culex have in common. The correct answer is: "They live in Monstro Town." In Eastern languages, this question is instead what Blooper, Leuko, and Cheep Cheep have in common, with the correct answer being "They live in the sea."

Culex's alignment and motives differ drastically between the Japanese and English versions.
In the Japanese version, Culex claims to be a timeless overlord made of pure evil. As a two-dimensional being, he is perplexed by the three-dimensional forms of Mario's party, so he demands a fight to try and understand them. Upon defeat, he recognizes the party's strength and positive energy, and he and his pocket dimension disappear until the day he finally gains the solidity of the third dimension.
In the English version, Culex is said to be the "Dark Knight of Vanda" sent by the Dark Mage, but his plans came to a halt after discovering that Mario's world is uninhabitable to him and his kind. He remains in a secure location in the hopes that the world's "strongest knight" will seek him for a challenge before he departs. He has nobler mannerisms, and attempts to leave Mario's company on good terms.
The remake changes Culex's depiction to be consistent in all languages. It is primarily based on the original Japanese version, in particular his perplexion for the three-dimensional forms for Mario's party that acted as his motivation for fighting them, and his nature as an evil being rather than a noble one. In Western languages, his Dark Knight of Vanda title and ties to the Dark Mage are retained.

Culex himself is an allusion to the Final Fantasy series, as Super Mario RPG: Legend of the Seven Stars is developed by Square, who are the creators of the Final Fantasy series. Culex has two different sets of game sprites, one for the overworld and a much larger one for battle, with the former being from a more top-down perspective instead of isometric like other enemies. His overworld sprite resembles enemy designs in the 2D Final Fantasy titles, and these sprites do not have as complex animations and frames, reminiscent of early Final Fantasy games. This is particularly pronounced in the Nintendo Switch remake, which reuses Culex's sprite from the SNES version instead of updating him to match the new art style. Moreover, the three music tracks associated with Culex are rearrangements of three music tracks from the Final Fantasy series: his battle music is a rearrangement of "Battle 2", the boss battle theme from Final Fantasy IV; the music that plays when he is defeated is a rearrangement of "Victory Fanfare", the victory music present throughout the Final Fantasy series, and the ending conversation is an arrangement of the Final Fantasy "Prelude". In the Japanese version, Culex mentions「次元じげんのはざま」(jigen no hazama, dimensional rift), which is the same as a location in Final Fantasy V. Culex's English name appears to have a similar origin as Golbez from Final Fantasy IV, who is named after the Golubaeser fly, as "Culex" is a genus of mosquito. His English Dark Knight of Vanda title may also be a reference to Cecil from the same game, introduced as a Dark Knight of Baron. In the Nintendo Switch remake, his in-game description in the Monster List claims that he hails from the world of "Last Illusion", a play on the name "Final Fantasy", and that said world is based on "a story about crystals", a common narrative device in the earlier Final Fantasy titles. In addition, his defeat animation in the remake has him disintegrating in both his standard and 3D Culex fights, referencing a common defeat animation for final bosses in the Final Fantasy games.