Cursa!!! is the final battle in Mario + Rabbids Sparks of Hope, located at Cursa's stronghold. After the heroes use a cannon to reach the Comet Observatory, they find themselves in the Darkmess Dimension. The Spark Twinkle exits out of Beep-0 to grant light for the heroes, before Cursa attacks. This is a large battle that takes place over three phases, with all 9 heroes in the battle. After the second phase, Rosalina is free, and she helps the heroes defeat Cursa for good in the third phase. After the battle is won, Cursa is destroyed for good, and everyone returns to Peach's Castle, including Rosalina.

The heroes are split up in groups of three across three different floating islands. The first island has Mario, Princess Peach, and Rabbid Rosalina. The second island has Luigi, Rabbid Luigi, and Rabbid Mario. The third island has Rabbid Peach, Edge, and Bowser. The battlefields change with each phase, but the islands have a similar, medium size for each phase. The enemies are also different for every phase.

The heroes must attack Cursa's astral arms for the first phase. Every turn, one of Cursa's arms will target a hero, pointing at them, as well as floating over them. Whenever the targeted hero moves, the arm will follow them. Whenever a hero does a Team Jump close to the targeted hero, or if the targeted hero does a Team Jump, the arm will grab that hero and throw them to the ground, damaging them. The heroes must create a spike from a Jump Panel at their island, and then the targeted hero must be near it, causing the arm to take damage from the spike, and protecting the hero from the arm. After the enemies' turn, the arm will fly back to Cursa, and the other arm will fly to the next island, and those heroes will be able to act. If one arm is defeated, the other arm will alternate between following a hero, to just staying close to Cursa. The arms attack by grabbing a hero and throwing them at another hero, or only slamming the hero, dealing area damage.
The enemies that are on the islands are as follows: the first island has 3 Squashers and 2 Lone Wolves, the second island has 2 Stooges, 2 Scopers, and a Wildclaw, while the third island has 2 Stooges, 2 Squashers, and a Depleter. Indestructible Darkmess portals will appear, contains enemies that are unique to each island.
After both arms are destroyed, Cursa's Star glows, and then Cursa gets angry, starting the next phase of the battle.

In the second phase of the battle, the heroes must now attack Cursa directly, specifically at the star on Cursa. Cursa only has one method of attacking - Spiral Ray, which deals high damage to a character, and causes the Exhaust Super Effect, weakening them. Every turn, Cursa will turn to face the next island, and those heroes will be able to act.
The layout of the islands and the enemies that appear on this phase are different. The first island has 3 Squashettes and 2 Lone Wolves, the second island has a Deep Freeze, 2 Stooges, and 2 Flamin' Stooges, and the third island has 2 Squashers, 2 Scopers, and a Ghostly Walker. Indestructible Darkmess portals will appear during this phase, containing enemies unique to each island.

After Cursa is defeated, the captured Sparks and Rosalina, will be set free, exciting Rabbid Rosalina. The heroes, along with Rosalina, prepare to face Cursa's true form, starting the third phase of the battle.

In the third phase, Rosalina has set up a barrier around herself, and is floating in front of Cursa. She has created three light wand-like projections, one for each island. The heroes must attack these to charge up power for Rosalina's wand, in order for her to deal 10,000 damage to Cursa, destroying its wings in the process. The heroes must charge up Rosalina's wand three times, with the third time defeating Cursa for good. Cursa still attacks with Spiral Ray, but now also has an attack that it only does on the second and third islands: using its wings to create wind to push everyone backwards, causing a Gust-like effect. Characters behind cover are not affected. Cursa is unable to do this attack if both of its wings are destroyed.
The enemies and island layouts have also changed again for this phase. The first island has 2 Stooges, 2 Flamin' Stooges, and a Wildclaw, the second island has 2 Flamin' Stooges and 2 Deep Freezes, and the third island has an Oozer, a Medician, and 2 Sea Stooges. Indestructible Darkmess portals will appear during this phase, containing enemies that are unique to each island.

After Rosalina does her third attack, Cursa is seemingly defeated, but quickly gets angry, causing the heroes to unite together, with Mario leading the charge. Rabbid Rosalina then gets in front of Mario, causing her to lead the charge. The Sparks then unite to form a ray of light, severely injuring Cursa. All of the heroes then use their weapons in unison, with Rosalina merging them all together into a powerful beam, destroying Cursa for good. The battle is then won.

After Cursa is defeated, everyone returns to Peach's Castle. Rosalina thanks everyone for saving her, but Beep-0 is sorry for not saving the Sparks. Rosalina then tells Beep-0 that the Sparks cannot be destroyed, only altered, showing that the Sparks are alive. Rosalina then tells Rabbid Rosalina that she went looking for her family once, and offers Rabbid Rosalina a choice to stay with her and the Sparks, but Rabbid Rosalina decides to stay with the heroes, saying that she would love to stay with Rosalina, but she now has a family of her own now. Rosalina then asks Edge about what she will do, and Edge replies that her old friends will have to find a new profession, as Cursa has been destroyed. She then tells Rosalina that she will stay with the heroes. Rosalina then bids farewell to Mario, and tells Bowser that no problem can’t be solved if they work together, only for Bowser to disagree. Rabbid Peach, Rabbid Mario, and Rabbid Luigi then play with Bowser, only for Bowser to get angry and for Mario to get worried. Bowser then has a fireball to ward off the Rabbids, surprising Mario.