The Dark Side of the Moon is a secret kingdom in Super Mario Odyssey, and is the greater location of Rabbit Ridge. It is served as the sixteenth kingdom overall in the game. It is reachable once the main game is completed and 250 Power Moons have been obtained. Rabbit Ridge is the home of the Broodals, and is ruled over by Madame Broode. Due to her love of vegetables, many statues of vegetables can be found scattered around the kingdom, primarily turnips. The largest one, however, is a carrot statue known as Rabbit Ridge Tower. In Rabbit Ridge Tower, the Broodals challenge Mario to a rematch, and he is able to fight them as many times as he wants. However, if Mario loses all his health, he respawns back to the outside of Rabbit Ridge where the Green Toad is. Outside the tower, many generic rabbits wearing top hats can be found; they can be neither spoken with nor captured. No regional coins exist in this kingdom, and as with the Moon Kingdom and Darker Side, Mario experiences lighter gravity except while in the bonus areas.

A Tasty-Looking Tower
This ostentatious stone tower was carved at the direction of the vegetable-loving Madame Broode, who lords over Rabbit Ridge.
Her underlings, the Broodals, live within and always have a warm "welcome" for visitors.

Topper, Client Relations
Responsible for client relations on behalf of the Broodals' wedding-planning firm, Topper is usually found on-site, troubleshooting.
You can tell how serious he is about a battle by the number of hats he has stacked on his head: he doesn't tap into his full hat reserves except for the most dangerous opponents. So if you square off with him and he seems to be mostly hat, you should feel honored...and afraid.

Rango, the Bouncer
He's not the most focused, but Rango is a valuable player on the Broodals team, always coming through in the end. A master of his boomeranging trampoline hat, he can throw it both straight and curved with almost unnatural control over the way it flies. On the other hand, he sometimes zones out a bit and looks confused. That's your chance to counterattack!

Hariet, Pyrotechnics
The least predictable of the Broodals, Hariet is most often found throwing bombs with her hair. When her homemade bombs explode, they leave a pool of fire on the ground, so try knocking them away before they explode. While it may seem reckless to have filled her hat with bombs, Hariet is devious and keeps a lot of spare explosives with her, so watch out!

Spewart, the Entertainer
Spinning around while spitting poison in a wide area, Spewart is the least subtle of the Broodals. But he also has an unexpectedly artistic side, as his poisonous ground-paintings show.

One Last Door
For those travelers who survive the "hospitality" of the Broodals, a new challenge may await...

Three Keys to the Kingdom

Watch out for the moon's light gravity; you can still die falling off a cliff.
Investigate behind all those stone-carved vegetables.
Greet all FOUR of the keys to this kingdom. You know who they are.

Map

Enemies marked with an asterisk (*) are only found in bonus areas.

Arrival at Rabbit Ridge!: The goal is to defeat the Broodals and RoboBrood on Rabbit Ridge Tower and collect the Multi Moon.

There are a total of 26 Power Moons (23 regular Power Moons and 1 Multi Moon) on the Dark Side. When the player first visits this kingdom, they can only collect 2 Power Moons, including the Multi Moon that is collected from defeating the Broodals for the last time. After they defeat them, 12 more Power Moons which are more difficult versions of previous challenges found throughout the other kingdoms will be unlocked as well as 10 pieces of Hint Art. There are no Moon Rocks to break for Power Moons in this kingdom.