The Dash Mushroom, commonly called simply the Mushroom, is a type of mushroom physically identical to a Super Mushroom that is used for speed boosts, especially in the Mario Kart series. It is also used to represent the Mushroom Cup.

The Mushroom debuts in Super Mario Kart, where it is one of the items obtainable from Question Blocks. When used, it provides a short speed boost. Apart from simply going faster, this can be used for going off-road without losing speed to provide shortcuts, or to bash other racers. If used before driving over a Jump Panel, the resulting jump goes further than normal. Racers are most likely to get the Mushroom if in 5th place or behind.

In Mario Kart 64, the Mushroom (also named Speed Mushroom) returns with two new variations: the Triple Mushrooms, which provide three speed boosts, and the Super Mushroom (renamed the Golden Mushroom in later games), which allows unlimited boosts for a short period. In this game, ramming into another racer while boosting from a Mushroom causes the opponent to spin out. In this game, the Mushroom is only a moderately common item, and cannot be obtained behind 5th place.

In Mario Kart: Super Circuit, Mushrooms return with their role from the first game and their design from Mario Kart 64.

In Mario Kart: Double Dash!!, Mushrooms appear with the same role as previously. In this game, ramming into an opponent's kart with a Mushroom boost allows the player to steal their own item. From this game forward, being hit with Lightning or a similar item while carrying a Mushroom causes it to be dropped onto the track, and driving over it automatically boosts the kart. Additionally, Mushroom Cars can be found at Mushroom Bridge and Mushroom City, and drop Mushrooms onto the track when collided with.

In Mario Kart DS, Mushrooms have the same role as before, though they have been updated to match their now current appearance, as they return to their shape from Super Mario Kart, and now only have five spots. They can be gained from an Item Box from 2nd to 7th place, though players are most likely to get it while in 4th place. Unlike other games barring the first, where Triple Mushrooms (or a pair of Mushrooms in the previous game) are given by default for time trial mode, this game gives a varying amount of Mushrooms based in the kart's "Item" statistic. Additionally, the Goombas in Mario Circuit turn into Mushrooms when they are hit by an item, including lightning.

In Mario Kart Wii, Mushrooms are called Dash Mushrooms for the first time, albeit only in British English materials. They can be gained from 2nd to 8th place. The best chance of getting this item is in 4th place, with a 20 percent (8 out of 40) chance of getting it in said position. From this game onwards, it can be used to avoid the Spiny Shell, though as they cannot be obtained in first place, the player would need to have one in reserve. Goombas again drop them, but only when hit by weaker items than Lightning.

In Mario Kart 7, Mushrooms (Dash Mushrooms in British English materials) can be gained from 1st to 5th place. When a player is gliding, using a Mushroom will provide a pushing force that propels the vehicle higher, allowing them to glide longer. Just like in Mario Kart Wii, Gooombas drop Mushrooms in the course when hit by items.

In Mario Kart 8 and Mario Kart 8 Deluxe, the Mushroom (again called Dash Mushroom exclusively in British English materials) is slightly more powerful than it is in other games. It also receives a new visual effect; the boost will create a line of flames between the road and the wheels, and it causes the engine to rev louder and higher. When obtained as a set of three, they now revolve around the vehicle, in the same way as the Triple Shells, and other racers that drive into them will feel their effect immediately without causing one to disappear. Mushrooms also have a sponsor named after them, Mushroom Piston.

In Mario Kart Tour, in addition to speed boosts, Mushrooms give bonus points upon use. Single Mushrooms are automatically trailed behind the player's kart, meaning other racers that drive into them will receive a boost, similarly to the Triple Mushrooms in Mario Kart 8 and Mario Kart 8 Deluxe. When a player runs into an Item Box as they crash, and they have Auto Item activated, any Mushrooms they currently carry are used up without giving them a speed boost, although the Mushrooms still grant bonus points in this situation; similarly, if a player picks up a Mushroom from the road while crashing, they do not get a speed boost but do get bonus points from it. Triple Mushrooms are also included in the game as the special skill of several drivers.
The following gliders in Mario Kart Tour increase the chance of getting Mushrooms and points for using one:

Mushrooms return as items in Mario Kart Live: Home Circuit, providing a speed boost like in previous Mario Kart games.

Mushrooms that provide a speed boost appear in Super Mario RPG: Legend of the Seven Stars, during the Moleville Mountain minigame. They can be collected by Mario, and used by pressing .

Dash Mushrooms are items in certain events of the Mario & Sonic series. Like in the Mario Kart series, they grant a temporary boost in speed. In the Nintendo DS version of Mario & Sonic at the Olympic Games, Dash Mushrooms appear in the Dream Race event, where they give the player a short speed boost when used. In the Wii version, Dash Mushrooms appear as items in Dream Platform, where they give the character a five second speed boost when used. In the Nintendo DS version of Mario & Sonic at the Olympic Winter Games, they are used in Supersonic Downhill, where they are scattered randomly throughout the course, and allow the player to perform a Mushroom Dash by pressing the B Button; up to five Mushrooms can be stored at once.

The Dash Mushroom appears as an item in Mario Party: Island Tour, Mario Party: Star Rush, Mario Party: The Top 100, and Super Mario Party. When used, it adds three to the player's dice roll.

In Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS and Super Smash Bros. for Wii U, the Dash Mushroom appears as a type of speed-based equipment that can only be used by Bowser, Bowser Jr., and Donkey Kong. Its common variant is simply referred to as a Dash Mushroom, while its uncommon variant is known as the Double Dash Mushroom and its rare variant is known as the Turbo Dash Mushroom.