Diamonds appear in the Super Mario franchise most commonly as collectible items and as the namesake of various other objects and locations.

In the PC version of Mario is Missing!, when Luigi visits Amsterdam, he finds that, like every other city in the game, Koopa Troopas have stolen precious artifacts from its landmarks, including a diamond from the Amsterdam Diamond Center. Luigi has to track it down and return it to the Center after proving its authenticity by answering trivia questions, rewarded 3250 dollars.
Despite Luigi returning only one diamond, the newspaper in Istanbul references Luigi returning millions of dollars worth of diamonds.

Diamonds appear in both versions of Wario's Woods whenever Toad takes out four or more enemies with a single bomb. They appear in all the same colors that bombs do, and can be similarly picked up and placed down to eliminate enemies of the same color. When this occurs, however, not only does the player get a sizable point bonus, but every other enemy of that color, regardless of position, is also eliminated.

Diamonds appear as a collectible item in a few games of the Wario Land series. They first appear in Virtual Boy Wario Land, where one is worth an extra life if collected. Diamonds are also an optional collectible item in Wario Land 4, where they are worth 1,000 points, and can be spent in the Mini-Game Shop. Wario Land 4 usually features Diamonds located throughout a level in secret or hard-to-reach areas, though they can also appear in pink areas. Diamonds also appear in Wario Land: Shake It!, behaving similarly to their appearance in Wario Land 4, but they are now worth 10,000 points.

Various types of diamonds appear as rare collectibles in Luigi's Mansion. Additionally, Diamonds are the fifth set of Gems in Luigi's Mansion: Dark Moon, with thirteen being hidden in the Treacherous Mansion.

Red diamonds appear in each level of Wario World, wherein they must be gathered from trapdoors to cause the Stone Doohickey blocking the way to the boss to vanish. Additionally, a more typical diamond appears as a treasure, located in the pink treasure chest in Greenhorn Forest.

Two minigames in Mario Party: Island Tour have the goal of collecting diamonds. In Cheep Diamonds, varying amounts of diamonds are eaten by Cheep Chomps, and players must choose the one that ate the most. Diamond a Dozen has five holes with diamonds inside, which players are given a brief view of at the start of the minigame. They must keep track of how many diamonds each hole had, and be the first to pick the one with the most.

Captain Toad: Treasure Tracker features collectible items known as Super Gems, which resemble diamonds and are referred to as "Super Diamonds" in languages other than English and German.

Diamonds were the premium currency of Dr. Mario World, mainly used to summon new doctors, assistants, and single-use items. They could also be used to purchase more hearts if the player ran out, to give the player more capsules if they ran out in a certain level, to give the player more time in challenge levels, or to start a level with a completely-filled skill meter. Another way to spend diamonds was through referrals (introduced in version 2.0.0), which cost 100 diamonds in exchange for that specific doctor. 
Diamonds were usually purchased via real money, though there are some instances in which Diamonds may be collected for free during gameplay. As of July 28, 2021, diamonds are no longer available for purchase.