Diddy Kong is a Kong introduced in Donkey Kong Country. He is the best friend and sidekick of Donkey Kong, assisting him on several of his journeys and appearing commonly in spin-off games of the Super Mario franchise starting with Mario Golf: Toadstool Tour, effectively taking the role of Donkey Kong Jr. Diddy Kong sports a red shirt with yellow stars and a red hat with the Nintendo logo and has a tail, unlike most Kongs. "Diddy" is a slang word in some parts of northern England for "small," as Diddy Kong is. Diddy Kong occasionally pairs up with his girlfriend, Dixie Kong. Diddy is the starring character of the racing game, Diddy Kong Racing, and its remake, Diddy Kong Racing DS.

During the development of Donkey Kong Country, the designers wanted the player to be capable of taking multiple hits, but they also aimed for the screen to be as "clutter-free" as possible, thereby forbidding the usage of a health bar. Having noted the "big Mario to small Mario" system used in the Super Mario games, Rare created Diddy Kong as a visual "extra hit." The design for the character was originally intended to be a redesign of Donkey Kong Jr., but Nintendo felt that its design was too different and insisted that Rare either make the design for Junior closer to his original appearance or make the new design an entirely different character. Rare, feeling that the design fit the "updated" Donkey Kong universe that the company was aiming to create, had decided to keep its design. During the process of naming the character, several names were suggested by Rare employees, including "Diet DK," "DK Lite," and "Titchy Kong." The name "Dinky Kong" was chosen, but it was later changed to "Diddy" due to legal considerations with Dinky Toys, although the name would eventually be used as Kiddy Kong's Japanese name.

Diddy Kong made his debut appearance in the Donkey Kong Country series, having appeared in every game. The only game where he is not playable is Donkey Kong Country 3: Dixie Kong's Double Trouble! Diddy has had more playable appearances in this series than Donkey Kong has.

Diddy Kong is a playable character in Donkey Kong Country as well as both its first and second remake. He assists Donkey Kong as the second player and sidekick, similarly but not identically to Luigi's relation to Mario's. Diddy is described as being a "Donkey Kong wannabe," wanting to be a video game hero like Donkey Kong. Diddy is inside the first DK Barrel in Jungle Hijinx, after the Kremling Krew raids the banana hoard, overpower him. Donkey and Diddy Kong have the same basic abilities, such as jumping, running, and rolling. Diddy has his own rolling move, Cartwheel Attack, which he can use to defeat enemies or briefly in midair to gain some momentum. Compared to Donkey Kong, Diddy is more agile, capable of jumping higher, moves faster, and holds a barrel in front of him rather than above his head. However, Diddy is weaker, not only from throwing barrels a shorter distance, but because he cannot defeat Krushas and Klumps by stomping them, and he has to stomp an Army twice to defeat it.
If the player achieves a completion rating of 90% or higher in the second remake, they unlock the "Hero Mode," where Diddy is the only player character, though with a yellow cap and shirt.

Diddy is a playable character in Donkey Kong Country 2: Diddy's Kong Quest and its remake. He retains his abilities from Donkey Kong Country, though he is now the first player rather than the second, with Dixie now taking that role. Diddy and Dixie Kong can do a team up move, allowing one of the Kongs to pick each other up and throw another to get across obstacles or reach higher elevations. Diddy has his own time attack mode in the remake, titled Diddy's Dash, where he is controlled through levels without the aid of Dixie.
In the game's story, the Kremling Krew kidnaps Donkey Kong and sends him away to their island, Crocodile Isle. K. Rool, now Kaptain K. Rool, threatens to keep Donkey Kong as a prisoner unless the Kongs give the banana hoard to him. Diddy refuses, so he and Dixie travel through Crocodile Isle. Whenever the player visits the Monkey Museum, Cranky chastises him and Dixie, believing them not to be actual video game heroes, hence the inclusion of Cranky's Video Game Heroes, an awards ceremony in which Cranky tallies up who has collected the most Video Game Hero Coins, for which he hid in every level.

Diddy is a non-playable character in Donkey Kong Country 3: Dixie Kong's Double Trouble! He and Donkey Kong both have a smaller role, though the events begin with them exploring the Northern Kremisphere. Since the two had not returned from their trip, Dixie goes to look for them, with her cousin, Kiddy Kong. In gameplay, Diddy and Donkey are seen only in Kastle Kaos, where after defeating Baron K. Roolenstein, it is revealed that the two were trapped inside of KAOS. Additionally, the remake adds Diddy as one of the Kongs to defend from Kremlings in the Funky's Rentals challenge "Protect."

Diddy Kong is a playable character in Donkey Kong Country Returns and its remake. Diddy is first seen in the opening cutscene, where he is the first to notice the banana hoard being stolen and attempts to retrieve it from the animals controlled by the Tiki Tak Tribe to steal them. Diddy is unsuccessful and forced into a DK Barrel. After being freed, Diddy and Donkey Kong go on a journey similar to Donkey Kong Country where they travel through the various regions of the island while fighting the operatives in each of them. In single player mode, Diddy stays on Donkey Kong's back, and Diddy can use his Barrel Jet to make both of them hover temporarily. Diddy is always controlled by the second player in multiplayer, with the added option of controlling him individually. Diddy has more agility than Donkey Kong, and he can still control the Barrel Jet in midair and stun enemies using his Peanut Popgun. Diddy has different roles after defeating Tiki Tong in the final battle. If he and Donkey Kong are together, the explosion of Tiki Tong sends them into space, where Diddy panics before DK knocks the moon out of orbit to hit Tiki Tong Tower. If Donkey Kong completes the battle alone, Diddy appears unexpectedly to save him from a large fall. If Diddy completes the battle alone, his Barrel Jet malfunctions as he tries to break from the gravitational pull of the moon; as a result, Diddy crashes into the moon headfirst, knocking it out of orbit and onto Tiki Tong Tower, before falling unconsciously and awakening in DK's hands.

Diddy Kong is a playable character in Donkey Kong Country: Tropical Freeze and its port. He is first seen during the game's opening cutscene, appearing to celebrate DK's birthday with Dixie and Cranky, only for the four to be interrupted by the Snowmads and blown away to the Lost Mangroves. Diddy can be released from from DK Barrels specially marked with two blue "DD"s. Diddy retains his moves from Donkey Kong Country Returns, but with added underwater exploration, Diddy can perform the Jet Blast underwater, giving him and Donkey Kong a speed boost, and both of them can use the Kong POW move together to turn every enemy into Red Balloons.

Diddy is one of the protagonists in the Club Nintendo comic "Donkey Kong Country," based on the identically titled game. Diddy is put on duty to watch over the banana hoard, though is discovered by King K. Rool and forced into a barrel. After being discovered and rescued by Donkey Kong, the two track down King K. Rool to defeat him. When King K. Rool is fought, Donkey Kong attacks by throwing Diddy up onto K. Rool.

Diddy lives in a skyscraper in Brooklyn with many other Nintendo characters in "Super Mario in Die Nacht des Grauens." During the monsters' invasion of the building, Diddy and Donkey are watching TV, but are interrupted by Chuckie, terrifying them, though Mario, Link and Kirby come to save them.

Diddy is one of the Kongs who goes on an expedition to save Earth from freezing as a giant U.F.O pulls it away from the sun in "Donkey Kong in: Banana Day 24." When it is revealed that the aliens mistook the planet as being a giant coconut, Diddy decides to give bananas to the aliens, who promise to return the Earth to its original position.

Diddy Kong is a playable character in the first two games of the Donkey Kong Land series: Donkey Kong Land and Donkey Kong Land 2. The events of the former game start when Diddy and DK are bet by Cranky Kong that they cannot recover the banana hoard from King K. Rool on an 8-bit handheld, though the two characters manage to travel their way through four worlds and defeat King K. Rool and the Kremlings once more. The events of Donkey Kong Land 2 are a retelling of Donkey Kong Country 2: Diddy's Kong Quest's, so Diddy has the same role and abilities as before.
Diddy does not appear in Donkey Kong Land III, but he and Donkey Kong start the game's events when they enter a contest to discover the Lost World, leaving Dixie and Kiddy Kong behind, both of whom decide to journey as well.

Diddy Kong appears throughout the 4koma Gag Battle manga adaptations of: Donkey Kong Country, Diddy Kong Racing and Donkey Kong 64.

Diddy Kong appears in the fourteenth volume of the Super Mario-kun manga. In the Donkey Kong Country part of the volume, Diddy and Donkey Kong are asked by Cranky Kong to fight King K. Rool, while in the Donkey Kong Country 2: Diddy's Kong Quest part, Diddy and his girlfriend, Dixie Kong, have to battle Kaptain K. Rool.

In Donkey Kong Country: Rumble in the Jungle, Donkey Kong introduces his "buddy" Diddy Kong to Funky Kong, who offers Diddy a ride in his barrel plane around Donkey Kong Island. During the flight, Diddy Kong notices smoke coming from Big Ape City, which was believed to have been abandoned. Hoping for an adventure, he is willing to investigate, although Funky Kong prefers to not "go looking for trouble". Returning to his treehouse after the flight, Diddy Kong realizes that he still has Funky Kong's walkie talkie, and trying to contact him reveals that his plane is being attacked by "flying pigs" over Big Ape City. Diddy Kong immediately agrees to travel with Donkey Kong to the city, joined by a reluctant Cranky Kong.
On the edge of the forest in Tree Top Town, the Kongs encounter a group of Kremlings. Diddy Kong performs several cartwheel attacks, which is true to his abilities as a playable character in the Donkey Kong Country and Donkey Kong Land series of games. Upon reaching Big Ape City, Diddy Kong is eager to find a way to infiltrate the factory, despite the high numbers of Kremling security guards. Overhearing some guards speaking, the Kongs discover that Funky Kong is being kept in the factory. After locating and breaking open Funky's cell, Diddy Kong assists Donkey Kong in clearing some Kremling guards using barrels. Upon inspecting his damaged plane, Funky draws a map for Diddy, explaining where to find the factory's supply room for a replacement waterpump. Diddy Kong traverses over several catwalks to reach the store room, where he encounters a Klap Trap. Diddy Kong lodges a barrel into the Klap Trap's large mouth, allowing him time to escape with the water pump.
After the Kongs from the factory in the barrel plane, Donkey Kong has the idea to jump from the plane and onto King K. Rool's zeppelin. Although afraid, Diddy Kong joins him in entering the zeppelin and defeating several Kremlings using cartwheels, double jumps and barrels. Afterward, Donkey and Diddy Kong plant the airship with time-delayed TNT Barrels, and choose to let the "coward" King K. Rool to escape. After re-entering the plane, Donkey Kong compliments Diddy Kong on how well he fought the Kremlings, and all the Kongs share a laugh as they watch the planted TNT Barrels explode onto the Kremling's factory.

Diddy Kong is one of the main characters in the Donkey Kong Country television series. Most of the episodes involve Diddy usually watching over the Crystal Coconut with Donkey Kong. Diddy Kong resembles his appearance in Donkey Kong Country, since his shirt lacks the yellow stars and his hat lacks the Nintendo logo. Diddy was voiced by Andrew Sabiston during the entire run of the series.

Diddy is the starring character of Diddy Kong Racing and its remake. In the prologue, Diddy gets a letter from Timber, who asks Diddy to help save Timber's Island from Wizpig, which the remake makes an opening cutscene out of. At the end, Diddy, Timber, and their friends manage to expel Wizpig and free the Timber's Island guardians from his mind control. Diddy has average acceleration and handling but below-average top speed, his vehicle number is 1, and his top speed without bananas is 56 mph. Diddy has a blue vehicle color in the original Diddy Kong Racing only.

Diddy Kong stars as the main character in a Mario no Bōken Land chapter, titled "Go Go Diddy!". The story starts out with him, and various other characters, racing together for fun, him being in 10th place. Wizpig interrupts the race, attacks Taj the Genie, and rips up his carpet. After Wizpig escapes the scene, Taj casts a spell to transform Mario, Peach and Diddy's cars into planes; it is then that Diddy, Mario and Princess Peach follow him to fight him. Mario and Peach are overtaken by Wizpig throwing bombs, but Diddy Kong manages to dodge his projectile missile. Diddy then buries Wizpig under a pile of rocks, and after Wizpig's defeat, all the other racers decide to forfeit the race that was in progress and declare Diddy Kong the winner because of his heroic actions. He is seen with a crown, with various characters, celebrating his victory over Wizpig.

Diddy is a playable character in Donkey Kong 64. He and a few other Kongs are held hostage by King K. Rool after his Blast-o-Matic is damaged accidentally. Diddy is freed by Donkey Kong in Jungle Japes. Diddy can collect red bananas and coins. Besides being the only Kong who can Double Jump, Diddy has three of his own moves that he can learn at Cranky's Lab, including Chimpy Charge, Rocketbarrel Boost, and Simian Spring. Diddy's musical instrument is the electric guitar, which he obtains from Candy's Music Shop. His weapon is the popguns, which he obtains from Funky's Store. Diddy has two of his own Bonus Stages to complete in Hideout Helm to deactivate the red current flowing within the Blast-o-Matic. Diddy is later selected as the second Kong to fight King Krusha K. Rool in the boxing arena, where he uses his Rocketbarrel Boost to shoot two targets on each of the light fixtures until one gets stuck on K. Rool's head, ending the round.
Diddy has three alternate color schemes in Monkey Smash, which include yellow, green, and blue.

Diddy Kong is a playable character in Mario Golf: Toadstool Tour. He is first seen briefly in the opening scene. For his par animation, Diddy nods and gives a thumbs up. When getting a birdie, Diddy jumps joyfully and gives two thumbs-ups. When achieving an eagle or a higher rating, Diddy performs a handstand with one arm and then flips before giving a thumbs up. If he gets a bogey, Diddy moans shamefully. If Diddy gets a double bogey or a lower rating he jumps and flails erratically in midair before stopping in midair and crashing neck-first back to the ground.

Diddy Kong is a playable character in Mario Golf: World Tour. He is seen looking at a bowl of bananas in the Castle Club's Royal Room. The shop has golf clubs, a ball, and clothes based on Diddy available for purchase, though the clothes can be received also by participating in tournaments. Diddy's costume can be unlocked by completing every Star Coin challenge in the Sky Island course. Some of Diddy's voice clips are recycled from Donkey Kong 64. For his par animation, Diddy flips and strikes a pose. When achieving a birdie, Diddy puts on his Barrel Jet and flies in victory. His animation for achieving an eagle or a higher rating show Diddy flying so high on his Barrel Jet out of joy that he ends up in Earth's atmosphere next to space, leaving him staring at the camera completely shocked and baffled. If he gets a bogey, he lies down in frustration while eating a banana. If he gets a double bogey or worse, he lies down in frustration while eating a banana, then tosses the peel and tries to get up, only to slip on the peel in the process.

Diddy Kong is a playable character in Mario Kart: Double Dash!! Diddy is a lightweight character. He is partnered with Donkey Kong by default. Both characters have the Giant Banana as their special item. Diddy's personal kart is the Barrel Train.

Diddy makes a cameo appearance in Mario Kart Arcade GP and Mario Kart Arcade GP 2. In both games, he appears in Bananan Ruins, cheering within the crowd whenever the player character crosses the finish line.

Diddy is an unlockable playable character in Mario Kart Wii. He is classified as a middleweight character. Diddy is unlocked by either winning the 50cc Lightning Cup or by playing 450 races. He features a small acceleration and drift bonus while getting a strong mini-turbo bonus. Diddy Kong is a staff ghost for the course Maple Treeway. There is both a normal and foil trading card of Diddy, and the back of his card has spelling error saying "...he his[sic] one fun driver."

Diddy Kong is a playable character of the Super type in Mario Kart Tour. His special item is the Banana Barrels, which he shares with Funky Kong and the Light Green Mii Racing Suit.

Diddy Kong was added to Mario Kart 8 Deluxe as a playable character through the sixth and final wave of the Booster Course Pass, alongside Funky Kong, Pauline, and Peachette. He is among the lightest middleweight characters, sharing statistics with Cat Peach, Inkling Girl, and female Villager. A CPU controlled Diddy Kong uses the same kart combination options as Toad.

Diddy, along with Donkey Kong appears in Donkey Konga. In this game, he and Donkey Kong find a pair of bongos. With Diddy worrying that it could be King K. Rool's trap, he and Donkey Kong take them to Cranky Kong. Diddy tries to play it while Donkey Kong claps. The two leave, and continue to play their bongos. Diddy is also a playable character in the game. Diddy Kong appears as a playable character in the sequel, Donkey Konga 2, where Diddy, his girlfriend, Dixie Kong, and Donkey Kong are the three playable characters. All of them return in Donkey Konga 3 JP, with Funky Kong being added as the fourth player.

Diddy is first seen in the opening cutscene of Mario Power Tennis, knocking back Bob-ombs thrown by Wario, Waluigi, and Bowser. He is also in various trophy ceremonies. For his own, Diddy arrives at the stadium, starts walking around Luigi, then flips the trophy with his tail in the air and catches while he celebrates his victory with Donkey Kong. Diddy is first seen in Koopa Troopa's trophy ceremony eating bananas and discarding a banana peel, which the Koopa trips over by accident before receiving his trophy. Diddy also causes Wiggler to trip in the latter's trophy ceremony, from a tennis ball, which Diddy also trips on accidentally, landing onto both Luigi and Wiggler, ending with the latter chasing Diddy and Luigi angrily. As a playable character, Diddy is billed a Speed type. His Offensive Power Shot is Acrobatic Banana, and his Defensive Power Shot is Barrel Jet. He is partnered in doubles matches with Donkey Kong by default.

Diddy is a playable character in Mario Tennis Open. He is billed a speedy player. Diddy is typically paired with Donkey Kong. A tennis outfit and racket based on Diddy can be bought from the Tennis Gear Store. A Mii costume in Diddy's likeness is unlocked by meeting 20 Mii characters via StreetPass.

Diddy Kong is a playable character in Mario Tennis Aces. He was available as a participation prize for the September online tournament, or as of October 1, 2018. Diddy is a speedy character. His Trick Shots are "Acrobatics" for forwards and "Diddy Roll" for sideways. His Special Shot is the "Jungle Swing".

Diddy is a playable character in Jungle Jam and the unlockable Diddy Mode in DK: King of Swing. The Diddy Mode is unlocked by collecting 24 medals as Donkey Kong. Diddy is one of the playable characters in the Jungle Jam, where he can jump high but has a weak attack.

Diddy Kong is the sidekick of Donkey Kong in DK: Jungle Climber. He can be launched by DK to hit objects and reach areas that are otherwise inaccessible. Diddy is required when using either the Hammer, Wings, or Torch. powerups. Diddy is raced at the start and in one of the minigames.

Diddy Kong is a computer-controlled opponent in Yakuman DS. He is one of twenty-one opponents.

Diddy Kong is first seen in the opening cinematic of Mario Superstar Baseball, where he hits a pitch thrown from Wario with a bunt, and lastly in the closing cinematic, where he greets Mario at the baseball field before Bowser arrives on scene and challenges Mario's team to a baseball game. As a playable character, Diddy has fast running and good fielding whilst having average pitching and weak batting. Diddy is a member of Donkey Kong's team in Challenge mode. His special ball is the Boomerang Ball, which launches the ball out like a Boomerang to trick the other team. It can be used when the player purchases the Chimp Banana in the store from challenge mode. His other special moves are Clamber and Super Catch. He shares good chemistry with Donkey Kong, Goomba, and Dixie Kong, and does not share bad chemistry with any character.

Diddy Kong is first seen in the opening cutscene of Mario Super Sluggers, where he is saved by Donkey Kong from being crushed by a giant barrel in DK Jungle, and in the cutscene shown after defeating Bowser's team in Challenge Mode, Diddy is one of the characters who celebrates before leaving. Diddy is both a playable character and captain, having a team name of Diddy Monkeys; his star swing is the Banana Swing; and his star pitch is the Banana Ball. Diddy received slightly improved batting, a good fielding boost, and a lowered running stat. Diddy shares good chemistry with all the Kongs, bad chemistry with the Kritters and King K. Rool, and is the only character with no good chemistry with any of the Mii colors. Diddy is a member of DK Wilds in Challenge mode, also guarding the statue that once held the stone tablet while the protagonists search for the missing pieces. Diddy joins the team in Challenge mode when Bowser Jr. is revealed to be holding Tiny Kong hostage. A game against the DK Wilds can be played once the team is assembled and the player talks to Diddy, who explains their strength and defense.

Diddy Kong is a playable character in Mario Hoops 3-on-3. He is billed a part of the Speedy class. His Special Shot is the Jet Shot, which summons a jet pack that takes Diddy to the basket.

Diddy Kong is a playable character in Donkey Kong Barrel Blast. He has low speed but a good boost and handling. His rival is Kip.

Diddy Kong is first seen in the intro of Mario Strikers Charged, where he gets sucked into some cyclone, though Diddy managed to survive it, as shown when he receives the ball and jumps into the air, smashing all of Yoshi's Dry Bones in the process and making a great kick. Diddy is an unlockable captain who can be unlocked by defeating him in the Crystal Cup. He is a Playmaker Captain who is very swift and agile. Diddy Kong appears to have supernatural powers, as seen with his Super Ability, Red Card!, which summons a beam of light to take players out of the field, and his Mega Strike, in which he launches in the air, moves into a Buddha position, and touches the ball with the tip of his tail, sending it flying. Diddy has more of a human-like voice on certain occasions, such as when shoved by an opponent, being affected by Wario's "Gas Mask!" ability, and getting electrocuted. Diddy's theme music for scoring and making his home entrance is Hindustani classical music. One of Diddy's winning animations involves him performing a victory dance, grinning sheepishly, whilst two of Diddy's losing animations show him moping around, and another where he pounds his fists into the ground angrily.

Diddy Kong returns as a playable character in Mario Strikers: Battle League, added through the version 1.2.0 update alongside Pauline. In this game, his best attributes are his speed and passing, while he has weaker strength and shooting. In his Hyper Strike, Barrel Boom, he shoots himself from a Blast Barrel towards the ball.

Diddy Kong is a non-playable character in the Story Mode of Mario Party DS, where the characters help Diddy free Donkey Kong from being a statue that Dry Bones had turned into, and Diddy happily rewards the characters with the third Sky Crystal. Diddy is similarly non-playable in Mario Party 9, being the mid-boss for DK's Jungle Ruins.
Diddy does not physically appear in Mario Party 10, but a statue resembling him mounted on Donkey Kong is on the southern side of the Donkey Kong Board. Diddy is not physically present in Mario Party: The Top 100, though his name is mentioned when scanning the Diddy Kong amiibo, giving them ten coins.
Diddy Kong is an unlockable character in Mario Party: Star Rush. He can be unlocked by earning enough party points to reach level 11 or by scanning a Diddy Kong amiibo. Diddy can break barrels in Toad Scramble to earn coins, and his Triple 7 Dice Block has half a chance of rolling either a 0 or a 7. Using a Diddy Kong amiibo in Coinathlon causes Diddy to always begin two Double Medals. Diddy Kong retains his unlockable status in Super Mario Party, now having to be unlocked by completing Chestnut Forest. Diddy's special Dice Block in the game has one face that gives him two coins only, without moving any steps; two faces that display 0s; and three faces that display 7s.
Though Diddy Kong is not playable in Super Mario Party Jamboree, artwork of him can appear in the minigame Big-Top Quiz. He is the only playable character from Super Mario Party to not physically reappear in this game.

Diddy Kong is first mentioned in Donkey Kong's character biography and trophy in Super Smash Bros. and Super Smash Bros. Melee. He has become a playable fighter in the Super Smash Bros. series since Super Smash Bros. Brawl. He is swift, agile, and very acrobatic. Diddy Kong has a weight value of 93 units in Super Smash Bros. Brawl and Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS / Wii U, later decreased to 90 units in Super Smash Bros. Ultimate. Diddy has realistic monkey voices, akin to Donkey Kong's gorilla-like noises, replacing their usual cartoony noises.

As a playable character in Super Smash Bros. Brawl, Diddy's special moves are Peanut Popgun, which lets him shoot peanuts at his opponents; Monkey Flip, which lets him leap forward and pummel (or kick) his opponents; Rocketbarrel Boost, which can be charged to fly through the air; and Banana Peel, which when thrown, makes his opponents trip. His Final Smash is Rocketbarrel Barrage, a combination of his Peanut Popgun and Rocketbarrel Boost. Diddy is referred to by Snake in his associated Codec Conversation as a "chimpanzee in a Nintendo hat."

In the events of Adventure Mode: The Subspace Emissary, Diddy is first encountered within Donkey Kong in the Jungle, helping him recover bananas stolen from the Koopa Troop. Diddy is later knocked away to safety by Donkey Kong before he is transformed into a trophy by Bowser's Dark Cannon. At the Lake, Diddy encounters Rayquaza and forces Fox to help him fight Rayquaza. As the two characters reach the the Swamp later on, Bowser successfully turns Diddy into a trophy and clones him into False Diddy Kong with Shadow Bugs, eventually multiplying in size. After Diddy is revived, he defeats the clone and teams up with Falco, again by force. Upon discovering that Donkey is being taken to the Isle of the Ancients, Falco drops Diddy for the Kong to rescue him. After receiving help from Captain Falcon and Olimar to fend off the Subspace Army, the four characters end up at the Subspace Bomb Factory. Upon meeting Samus and Pikachu, R.O.B. reveals himself just before they are forced to evacuate the island as it is drawn into Subspace. In Subspace, Tabuu turns Diddy and the other gathered heroes into trophies. However, Diddy is among the fighters rescued by King Dedede and the others with him before they all head into the Great Maze to defeat Tabuu and save the World of Trophies.

Diddy Kong is a playable character in Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS / Wii U. He was originally confirmed to be added on February 21, 2014, the day that Donkey Kong Country: Tropical Freeze released in anglophone regions. Diddy received improvements with his mobility. He was given longer limbs, giving his attacks more range. Many of Diddy's attacks deal significantly more knockback, although his damage output had been lowered.

Diddy Kong appears in Super Smash Bros. Ultimate. He benefits from universal changes, including faster mobility, decreased short hop timing, reduced landing lag with his aerial attacks; the ability to directionally air dodge; and using any ground attack out of a run, or any aerial attack on ladders. Diddy Kong's damage output has been further decreased. Diddy's Monkey Flip and Rocketbarrel Boost moves cover a lot less distance.
In the opening cutscene of Adventure Mode: World of Light, Diddy is among the fighters who attempt to escape from Galeem's beams of light; Diddy himself attempts to flee using the Rocketbarrel Pack alongside Rosalina & Luma, but ultimately is consumed and used to create puppet fighters. Diddy is found in the sub-area in the Light Realm resembling the first world of the original Donkey Kong Country, with Diddy himself serving as the "boss" of that area.
Owing to King K. Rool's ties to Donkey Kong, Diddy Kong appears alongside Donkey Kong in K. Rool's introduction trailer. Specifically, Diddy Kong lounges lazily in Donkey Kong's treehouse on a tire swing, only to be startled by quakes before looking outside with Donkey to investigate. They then see an ominous shadow, revealed to be King Dedede wearing a cape and King K. Rool's mask, to their surprise. King Dedede laughs at his joke before being smacked upside the head and knocked away by King K. Rool. In the ending of the trailer, Diddy, alongside Donkey Kong, has their foot and fist, respectively, make contact with King K. Rool's fist with enough force as to cause a shockwave to be emitted throughout the jungle. Diddy also makes an appearance in Banjo & Kazooie's trailer.
Diddy Kong's Classic Mode route is titled "Hey, Little Buddy!", which involves him fighting alongside characters who generally have sidekicks at their side during adventures. Diddy engages in the battles in the following order:

A Team Battle allied with Mario against Bowser and Bowser Jr. on Princess Peach's Castle
A Team Battle allied with Zero Suit Samus against Meta Ridley and Dark Samus or Norfair
A Team Battle allied with Zelda against Ganondorf on Unova Pokémon League
A Team Battle allied with Pokémon Trainer against Mewtwo on Spear Pillar
A Team Battle allied with Kirby against King Dedede and Meta Knight on the Fountain of Dreams
A Team Battle allied with Donkey Kong against King K. Rool on Jungle Japes
A boss fight against Master Hand and Crazy Hand while allied with Donkey Kong on Final Destination

Diddy appears in a few microgames of the WarioWare series. In DK Country of WarioWare: D.I.Y. Showcase, Diddy is shot out of a moving Bonus Barrel, with the goal being to collect two rows of bananas while avoiding a red Zinger. In Donkey Kong Country Returns of WarioWare: Get It Together!, Diddy is sometimes seen after completing the microgame.

Diddy's first three appearances in the Mario & Sonic series are in the form of an unlockable Mii outfit. In Mario & Sonic at the Olympic Winter Games for the Wii, the suit based on him can be purchased from the boutique. In Mario & Sonic at the London 2012 Olympic Games for the Wii, the suit is unlocked after playing against a friend 20 times in Single Event mode. In Mario & Sonic at the Sochi 2014 Olympic Winter Games, the Diddy suit is unlocked after completing 3 areas in Legend Showdown.

In more recent installments, Diddy has begun to appear as a playable character. In the Nintendo 3DS version of Mario & Sonic at the Rio 2016 Olympic Games, Diddy makes his playable debut in the series, although he can only be played in the 110m Hurdles event. In the Wii U version, Diddy is only playable in the Rugby Sevens event. Oddly, for Mario & Sonic at the Rio 2016 Olympic Games, Diddy has brown eyes instead of black like in the Super Smash Bros. series, and he does not have the Nintendo logo on his cap, possibly because Sega developed the games. In Mario & Sonic at the Olympic Games Tokyo 2020, Diddy is a Technique character, and he is only playable in Rugby Sevens.

Diddy Kong is a playable character in Mario Sports Mix. He is billed a speedy character. Diddy has a slightly higher technique stat countered with a slightly lower power stat. For his Special Shot, Diddy throws a banana in the manner of a boomerang, attempting to stun anyone who tries to counter his shot. Diddy Kong can give his full power shots an added curve in Volleyball.

Diddy Kong is a playable character in Fortune Street. He ranked at Level D, alongside Birdo, Donkey Kong, Slime, and Yangus.

Diddy Kong is a Mystery Mushroom costume in the Super Mario Bros. style of Super Mario Maker, unlockable by scanning his amiibo onto the Wii U GamePad or randomly after clearing the 100 Mario Challenge. The costume is an 8-bit rendition of him, and its sounds are taken from Donkey Kong Country.

Diddy Kong is referenced in Super Mario Odyssey, with one of the billboards in New Donk City reading "Diddy's Mart," and there is a purchasable costume of Diddy Kong that can be bought after either completing the game and collecting enough Power Moons or using his amiibo through Uncle amiibo.

Diddy Kong is a playable character in Mario Sports Superstars. Diddy is a Speed type character in most sports, a quality shared with Baby Mario, Baby Luigi, and Bowser Jr. Diddy has a default drive of 216 yards in golf and makes shots that travel slightly high in a draw trajectory; some of Diddy's voice clips from Donkey Kong 64 are also recycled for the Golf gameplay.

Diddy Kong, under the name Dr. Diddy Kong, was added to Dr. Mario World as a playable character on October 31, 2019. Dr. Diddy Kong is a reward in World 9's special stage since version 1.2.0, though beating the stage prior to the update will allow him to be obtainable through the doc box.
Dr. Diddy Kong's skill is to change full-sized capsules into two half-capsules, represented by his Peanut Popgun being fired and a peanut being overlaid on a capsule and being snapped into two. In stage mode, this affects the next four capsules, but in versus, this affects the next three capsules in level 1 and the next six capsules starting from level 2 (higher levels have a faster skill meter charge). When the changed capsule is brought into the stage, it works like a full-sized capsule in that both move simultaneously, but when control of the capsule is released, both halves of the capsule operate individually. Half-sized rainbow capsules are unaffected by this effect. In version 2.3.0, the first capsule affected by this effect are turned into rainbow capsules (half-sized rainbow capsules are still unaffected), which applies to both stage mode and versus.

Diddy Kong can be seen in the audience behind Donkey Kong on a poster for The Super Mario Bros. Movie with Swanky Kong, Dixie Kong, and Cranky Kong, among various other generic Kongs. He has been given a slight redesign, with his eyes being separated and his tank top lengthened to cover his legs and show part of his chest along with yellow trimming. His hat has also been redesigned slightly, with the Nintendo logo being absent and a pin with Donkey Kong's emblem on it. He is also the only Kong other than Donkey Kong and Cranky Kong whose name is mentioned in the film.
In the film, he is seen in the crowd at the Great Ring of Kong for Mario and Donkey Kong's fight, cheering for the latter with Dixie and Chunky Kong sitting next to him. He continues to cheer even after Cranky silences the crowd until he tells him to be quiet, causing Diddy to sheepishly apologize. He is voiced by Eric Bauza.

Diddy was to star in both Diddy Kong Pilot and Donkey Kong Racing as a main character and a sidekick, respectively, but these games were canceled before they could be released when Nintendo sold Rare Ltd. to Microsoft.

In 1998, Diddy was featured alongside Mario, Yoshi and Koopa Troopa in a Pez dispenser set.
Diddy appears in Nintendo Monopoly, costing $260 and taking the role of Ventnor Avenue, as well as being a "Power Pack" expansion figure for Monopoly Gamer.
Diddy Kong appears in the game Skylanders: SuperChargers as part of the SuperCharged version of Donkey Kong's vehicle, the Barrel Blaster. He is also the basis of Donkey Kong's Soul Gem Diddy You Call?, where after being summoned he can fly around in his Rocketbarrel Pack and attack enemies with his Peanut Popguns, similar to his Final Smash in the Super Smash Bros. series.
In the Super Mario Mash-up in Minecraft, Diddy Kong appears as a playable skin.

Diddy Kong appears to be designed after a spider monkey. He has versatile feet, and a prehensile tail (the only Kong to possess one), which he uses most of the time to hold certain small items or also hang on objects. Diddy Kong's face is somewhat similar to Donkey Kong; however, Diddy Kong has big eyes and a less frowned space between the eyebrows, covered in fur, as opposed to Donkey Kong's. His ears are a bit big, the same size of his eyes. Diddy Kong's eyes are usually depicted as black, although Diddy Kong Racing and Donkey Kong 64 depict him with blue eyes. On the other hand, Super Smash Bros. Brawl gives him brown eyes. The color of his eyelids varies depending on his appearances; sometimes they are either brown (like in Donkey Kong 64 and Diddy Kong Racing DS) or tan (like in Donkey Kong Country, Donkey Kong Country 2: Diddy's Kong Quest and the Super Smash Bros. series) and mostly he has no eyelids at all (though he still blinks but his eyes remain open). Upon creation, he originally had four fingers. After the Microsoft acquisition of Rare Ltd., Nintendo now had exclusive rights to Diddy Kong, and altered his look to now have five fingers, starting with Mario Golf: Toadstool Tour.
Diddy Kong's clothing consists of a red cap showing the logo of Nintendo on its front, and a red tank top, with yellow stars on it (the details on his clothes were first introduced in Donkey Kong Country 2: Diddy's Kong Quest).

In Donkey Kong Country, an alternate Diddy Kong's clothing was a yellow tank top and a yellow cap. It appeared when two players wished to play independently. In Donkey Kong Country 2: Diddy's Kong Quest, Diddy Kong appears with another alternate costume as well. In the sequel, Diddy Kong wears a blue costume. In Mario Strikers Charged, Diddy Kong wears armor, protecting him against hazards set in the game. He wears a pair of wristbands, shoulder-pads, and a cuirasse over his tank top to protect his chest. The armor is mainly yellow, but it turns to purple in case that his opponents wear a similar color scheme. Later in Donkey Kong Country Returns, when the Super Guide mode is activated and Super Kong breaks a DK Barrel, Super Diddy Kong appears. Super Diddy Kong has white fur instead of brown, and his red cap and tank top have become blue.
Throughout the Super Smash Bros. series, Diddy Kong has had eight alternate costumes to choose from, including his default appearance. In Super Smash Bros. Brawl, Diddy Kong has 6 costumes, while in Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS / Wii U and Super Smash Bros. Ultimate, he has 8 costumes. Diddy Kong's first alternate costume consists of a yellow tank top with red stars and white cap, while his fur is dark brown, resembling his alternate color in Donkey Kong Country's Two-Player Contest mode; his second alternate costume gives him golden brown fur, while his cap and tank top turn pink (the stars also turn white), resembling Dixie Kong; his third alternate costume gives him dark brown fur and a purple tank top and cap, resembling his appearance in Donkey Kong Country 2: Diddy's Kong Quest's Two-Player Contest mode; his fourth alternate costume gives him reddish-brown fur and a green tank top and cap, resembling one of his alternate colors from Donkey Kong 64's multiplayer mode; lastly, his fifth alternate costume gives Diddy Kong a blue tank top and cap, resembling Kiddy Kong. In 3DS / Wii U, Diddy Kong gains his sixth and seventh alternate costumes: the former gives him black fur with a brown tank top and yellow cap, resembling a chimpanzee; the latter gives him light brown fur with a cyan tank top and fur, resembling Donkey Kong Jr.'s design in Donkey Kong Jr. Math.

In the early Donkey Kong Country games, as well as the Donkey Kong Land series, there was no voice acting, though Diddy Kong did have a few realistic monkey sounds provided by Mark Betteridge. However, the games' respective instruction manuals showed Diddy Kong being able to speak full sentences. Diddy Kong was able to speak intelligently in the comic Rumble in the Jungle and the Super Mario Kun manga. Diddy Kong first received voice acting in the 1998 computer-animated Donkey Kong Country series, where he was portrayed by Andrew Sabiston. In the GameCube-era Super Mario and Donkey Kong games, Diddy was voiced by Chris Sutherland, who provided him with a mixture of cartoonish monkey noises and actual words/phrases, such as "Uh-oh!" and "Come on!" From 2004 onwards, Diddy Kong has been voiced by Katsumi Suzuki, who solely provided him with a cartoonish monkey voice. In cases where Diddy Kong is intended to speak in full sentences, there is in-game text to show what he is actually saying. The only time in the games where Diddy Kong actually speaks is in Diddy Kong Racing, when he says, "I'm Diddy!" whenever the player selects him to play as him. Most of the time, his speech is in parentheses, thus implying that characters other than Donkey Kong and the other Kongs still have difficulty understanding what he is saying. In the Super Smash Bros. series, Diddy Kong receives realistic monkey noises.

In almost every appearance he makes, Diddy Kong has been shown to be quick and nimble to offset Donkey Kong's great strength. As a result, Diddy, while more agile, has more trouble defeating larger enemies. In many games he has appeared, such as in Donkey Kong Country and Donkey Kong 64, he is able to use his cartwheel to attack opponents but also to jump farther in Donkey Kong Country. Diddy Kong is shown to have a strong skull; he has a special dashing ability in Donkey Kong 64 called Chimpy Charge where he ram into switches, walls, and gongs with a head-first charge and in Donkey Kong Country Returns, after defeating Tiki Tong, he brings the moon down with just his head.
While teamed up with Dixie Kong during the events of Donkey Kong Country 2: Diddy's Kong Quest, Diddy Kong is able to pick up his partner and throw her to high areas or enemies. He can also throw her at collectibles that float above pits.

In some games, Diddy Kong can also use his Barrel Jet to fly to hard-to-reach areas. However, in Donkey Kong 64, it is only given to him after entering one of Cranky's Kong Barrels, and it can only be used in certain areas. During the time Diddy Kong uses his Barrel Jet, he is also equipped with Peanut Popguns, which allow him to defeat or stun distant enemies and activate switches. During Donkey Kong Country Returns, Diddy Kong can use his Barrel Jet in order to carry Donkey Kong over pits. It's revealed in Donkey Kong Country 2: Diddy's Kong Quest, that Diddy Kong has a prehensile tail due to the fact he can hang onto hooks with it. Additionally, in Donkey Kong 64 he is able to use his tail to attack enemies or use it as a spring to reach higher areas. In Super Smash Bros. Brawl, he is able to combine his Rocketbarrel Pack and Peanut Popgun for his Final Smash.

In Mario Superstar Baseball, Diddy Kong, with his good running stat, also possess the ability to climb on walls and catch balls that are otherwise fair. He also has Super Catch ensuring that he does not fumble any routine fly balls. His pitches and batting involve curving the ball in the shape of a banana. This ability is also present in Mario Power Tennis.  In Mario Striker Charged, Diddy Kong displays some supernatural abilities such as summoning a beam of light that subdue his opponents into the sky and psychic abilities during his Mega Strike. In Mario Sport Mix, his special move is throwing a banana like a boomerang which stuns opponents after being hit by it.
Diddy Kong is capable of juggling, which he does in Donkey Kong Country 2: Diddy's Kong Quest if he does not move for a while. Also, his artwork for Mario Super Sluggers portrays him juggling three baseballs. Just like Dixie Kong in Donkey Kong Country 2: Diddy's Kong Quest, he is also capable of playing an electric guitar in Donkey Kong 64, which he uses to solve puzzles and destroy surrounding enemies.

Diddy Kong is a friendly and adventurous character, willing to help out his friends during times of need, evidenced by the Donkey Kong Country series. Diddy Kong is somewhat of a peace seeker, which is an offset to Donkey Kong's more aggressive behavior against his enemies, since he asks a Kremling to "show himself if he was friendly" in Donkey Kong Country. Diddy Kong's defining personality trait is his energy and gaiety, to the point of childishness (in a similar vein to Toad, though he is less humble than the mushroom himself). Diddy Kong always shows excitement in various competitive sports (the Mario Golf, Mario Tennis, and Mario Baseball series) and kart races, as evidenced by his idle and victory animations, which see him cartwheeling, backflipping, sideflipping, jumping up and down, or clapping his hands while yelling and screeching in happiness and enjoyment. Diddy's boisterous, slap-happy personality comes into play in Super Smash Bros. Brawl, Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS / Wii U, and Super Smash Bros. Ultimate, where he is constantly smiling or showing toothy grins. Diddy Kong's victory animations show him holding his head with both his hands, or firing a peanut from the Peanut Popgun, further showing how excitable he is. In The Subspace Emmissary, he is fearless to the point that he does not consider the danger; eager to fight Bowser while Donkey Kong and Fox McCloud knew this was too dangerous when he had a Dark Cannon at his disposal. Despite his energetic, excitable nature, Diddy Kong becomes sad when he loses to a boss in the Donkey Kong Country games or his opponents in various Super Mario spin-offs and Super Smash Bros. games, thus showing that he does not like to face defeat. In the television show, Diddy has a more snarky than go-lucky attitude.

Donkey Kong is Diddy Kong's best friend and idol. Although they are designed after different species, Diddy Kong has been called a relative of Donkey Kong's in a handful of material mostly in the late 90's. One of the earliest instances appears to be the December 1997 issue of the Official UK Nintendo Magazine, referring to him as Donkey Kong's son. He has also been called Donkey Kong's nephew in 1999, specifically in the English version of Super Smash Bros., once on Rare's website, and the Donkey Kong 64 Player's Guide, as well as by Diddy's creator Kevin Bayliss; however, non-international releases of Super Smash Bros. do not refer to Diddy as DK's nephew, Leigh Loveday himself uses uncertain language, and the Donkey Kong 64 instruction booklet only considers him "Donkey's little nephew wannabe." The Prima Games guide for the 2003 Game Boy Advance version of Donkey Kong Country vaguely refers to them as cousins, and so do the Italian instruction booklets of both the Game Boy Color and Game Boy Advance remakes of Donkey Kong Country. The Italian Club Nintendo magazine defines him as the youngest member of the Kong family. In Super Mario-kun Volume 12, Diddy's introductory description states that he is "Donkey's admirer and otōtobun", a term that refers to a friend that is treated/seen as a younger brother. Most subsequent sources drop the notion of Donkey Kong and Diddy Kong being related, but the Donkey Kong Country Returns Kong Gallery refers to one image of Donkey Kong and Diddy Kong as a "Family Portrait" in every language except Japanese. According to Gregg Mayles, the Kong characters of Donkey Kong Country were set to be related to each other, but the notion was left ambiguous after deeming design quirks such as Diddy's tail nonsensical.
Cranky Kong considers himself to be a "grandpappy" of sorts to Diddy Kong (as well as Dixie Kong), and while he complains about Diddy Kong receiving a starring role in Donkey Kong Country 2: Diddy's Kong Quest while he was stuck in a gloomy shed, he also calls him a true video game hero and comments that he must take after himself and Donkey Kong. Incidentally, in the episode "Ape Foo Young" of the Donkey Kong Country television series, Diddy Kong tries to pass off Baby Kong as Donkey Kong's nephew, while Cranky Kong states that he does not have one.
Dixie Kong began a relationship with Diddy Kong after the events of Donkey Kong Country, and has accompanied her boyfriend on a few adventures and sports outings, including Diddy Kong Racing DS, in which Donkey Kong does not appear. Their romantic relationship is not often touched upon in the games themselves, but is utilized in the Donkey Kong Country television series. Diddy is shown to be good friends with her sister Tiny Kong in rare interactions, as Diddy freed Tiny in Donkey Kong 64 and Tiny joins his group in Diddy Kong Racing DS.

Diddy Kong, like the rest of the Kongs, is mortal enemies with the Kremlings. A Krusha stuffed him in a barrel when he guarded the banana hoard and the Kremlings, in later adventures, kidnap him and his friends. Diddy has an antagonistic relationship with King K. Rool, almost as much as Donkey Kong. Diddy Kong views him as "King K. Fool" once in DK: Jungle Climber while demanding him to just surrender. In Donkey Kong Barrel Blast, Diddy has a rivalry with Kip.
Diddy Kong also has another archenemy, the evil Wizpig, who he and a group of friends face in a race after takes over Timber's Island.

Diddy Kong is usually introduced as Donkey Kong's buddy in his official bios, with Dixie Kong being mentioned occasionally as well. He is typically described as being small and agile, and his stats in most spinoffs accordingly make him a lightweight and/or speed character.