Dixie Kong is a recurring member of the Kong clan who first appears in Donkey Kong Country 2: Diddy's Kong Quest. Dixie's trademark ponytail allows her to attack, hold onto objects such as hooks, and hover in the air by spinning it like a rotor, a move called the Helicopter Spin. Introduced as Diddy Kong's strong-willed girlfriend, she has starred in multiple installments of the Donkey Kong Country series as a playable character. Dixie Kong has a sanguine and energetic personality, and she often expresses herself in cheerful vocalizations and acrobatic mannerisms. She has also made playable appearances in a few Super Mario spin-off games including the Mario Baseball series and Mario Hoops 3-on-3.

In Donkey Kong Country 2: Diddy's Kong Quest, Dixie joins Diddy on his journey to rescue Donkey Kong from Crocodile Isle. Dixie's unique and trademark ability is the Helicopter Spin, which allows her to glide across the air. If Dixie hits an End of Level Target hard enough at the end of a level, she takes out an electric guitar and briefly performs on it before exiting. Their adventure culminates in a boss fight against Kaptain K. Rool in The Flying Krock. They eventually defeat him and free Donkey Kong. Later in the Lost World, Diddy and Dixie encounter Kaptain K. Rool again at Krocodile Kore. After the Kongs defeat Kaptain K. Rool, Crocodile Isle starts to sink underwater, and the Kongs evacuate the island. In the ending, Dixie is seen with Donkey Kong and Diddy, watching as Crocodile Isle sinks underwater.
In the Game Boy Advance version, Dixie has the same voice clips as Tiny Kong, recycled from Donkey Kong 64. This is later repeated for the Game Boy Advance version of Donkey Kong Country 3: Dixie Kong's Double Trouble!.

Dixie Kong has her first starring role in Donkey Kong Country 3: Dixie Kong's Double Trouble!. In the backstory for the game, Donkey Kong and Diddy go on a fishing trip. After a few days of them not returning, Dixie goes to the Northern Kremisphere to begin her search. She goes to Funky's Rentals, where Funky Kong gives her Kiddy Kong to babysit. Kiddy joins Dixie in her adventure to find Donkey Kong and Diddy. Dixie and Kiddy encounter many Kremlings along the way, but at Mekanos, they first encounter the Kremling Krew's supposed new robotic leader, KAOS. Later on, at the end of Kaos Kore, Dixie and Kiddy fight not only KAOS but also its creator, Baron K. Roolenstein. The Kongs defeat both KAOS and K. Rool and free Donkey Kong and Diddy, who were trapped inside of KAOS. Dixie and Kiddy's adventure ends with all of the rescued Banana Birds carrying them up where the Banana Queen is, in the clouds, and the Banana Birds free the Banana Queen from her barrier. Dixie and Kiddy then ride the Banana Queen as she chases after Baron K. Roolenstein, and the Banana Queen drops a large eggshell on K. Rool to stop him. The first segment of the end credits shows an album made by Dixie, titled Dixie Kong's Photo Album, which has the name and a photograph of nearly each character and enemy.

After six years of absence, Dixie reappears as one of the playable characters in Donkey Kong Country: Tropical Freeze and its Nintendo Switch port of the same name, along with Donkey Kong, Diddy Kong, and Cranky Kong (and Funky Kong in the Nintendo Switch port). At the start of the game, the Snowmads blow away the four Kongs to a faraway island, the Lost Mangroves.
Dixie can spin her ponytail to slow Donkey Kong's descent. Unlike her earlier appearances, Dixie can briefly gain altitude by using her Helicopter Spin in midair, even while riding Donkey Kong. Dixie can also slam her ponytail on the ground in a similar fashion to Donkey Kong's Hand Slap, or use the Ponytail Propeller underwater in order to swim against strong currents. Like Diddy and Cranky, Dixie also has her own popgun, the Gumball Popgun. If Dixie and Donkey Kong use the Kong POW move together, every enemy on-screen turns into Gold Hearts. Unlike the second and third Donkey Kong Country titles, Dixie uses her hands to carry an object rather than her ponytail.
Dixie plays air guitar when left idle for a awhile. She also plays guitar in the ending sequence, both referencing her love of guitars from Donkey Kong Country 2: Diddy's Kong Quest. Her new guitar has a banana-themed design.

Dixie reappears in Donkey Kong Land 2, where she has the same role and abilities as in Donkey Kong Country 2: Diddy's Kong Quest. It is also the first time that Dixie appears on a handheld game.

In the backstory of Donkey Kong Land III, Dixie is left behind to babysit Kiddy after Donkey Kong and Diddy enter a competition in search of the Lost World. Dixie wants to enter the competition but was not considered for the contest. Dixie, wanting to prove herself as competent, decides to join the search for the Lost World, and she takes Kiddy with her. During their adventure, Dixie and Kiddy encounter many of the Kremlings and eventually Baron K. Roolenstein at the end of Tin Can Valley, and then again in the Lost World itself.

Dixie appears in the comic, "Donkey Kong in: Banana Day 24". Dixie is sleeping in a palm and is suddenly awakened by Squawks the Parrot. Afterward, Diddy and Cranky explain to her that it is Christmas. After learning what day it is, she suggests to prepare a Christmas party, but, suddenly, she starts to shiver. The Kongs quickly discover that snow is falling from the sky, something Dixie and the others has never experienced yet. At the TV, the Kongs learn that the temperature has dropped all over the world and also that the president of the United States of America invites for a summit to find a solution to the problem. The Kongs decide to travel to the United States to talk with the president. Dixie and the others ride their Animal Friends to the nearest airport where they take the Jumbo Barrel to travel to Washington D.C.
The president tells them that a huge UFO pulling the Earth away from the sun is the cause of the low temperature. He provides them with a space shuttle, and with help of Cranky, Dixie and the others are launched into the aliens' space shuttle. At the space shuttle, Dixie, Diddy and Donkey Kong quickly notice the aliens look like them but bigger and green and blue. The Kongs learn that the aliens do not want to dominate Earth, and what really happened is that the aliens thought Earth was a giant Coconut. After giving bananas to the aliens in exchange of them returning Earth to its original temperature, the Kongs head back to Earth where they are hailed by the people for saving them. Back in the jungle, Dixie and the others finally celebrate a Christmas party. At the end Dixie enjoys the starry sky along her boyfriend.

Dixie Kong makes sporadic appearances on the Donkey Kong Country cartoon produced by Nintendo and Nelvana. On the show, her personality is drastically different than the one portrayed in the games; her clothing is also different, consisting of a teal singlet with a flower on it, somewhat resembling what her sister, Tiny Kong wears. Her ponytail is also smaller than it is in the games. In the episodes Get a Life, Don't Save One and Klump's Lumps, Dixie loses her pet crab and lobster, respectively. In the latter episode, she is also shown to be more trusting than the other Kongs, befriending a recently fired General Klump when no one else can. She is the only Kong included in the show that makes her debut in Donkey Kong Country 2. Dixie was voiced by Louise Vallance.
Her first appearance in the show is in episode seven, Kong for a Day. In this episode, she cheers up Donkey Kong after Funky gets angry with him, and she also goes with him when he has to leave the island. When they are in the jungle, Krusha imitates Donkey's voice and tricks Dixie, making her believe that Donkey Kong is hitting on her and saying bad things about Diddy.
In the episode From Zero to Hero, she is one of the characters reunited to see Cranky's new experiment, the X-ray machine. When Bluster enters, saying he has more rights than Dixie and the others, just because he is rich, she gets mad and tells him that he is inconsiderable. As Candy has to go to work, Dixie is the next character to enter and have X-rays. Later, she is the one that informs Cranky that King K. Rool has the Crystal Coconut.
In the episode Buried Treasure she convinces Candy of going with Bluster on a treasure hunt to mountain mines. After the treasure is found Dixie, along the other Kongs and King K. Rool start fighting for it.

Dixie is one of the main characters in the Donkey Kong comic Bumm-Badabumm im Urwald. Here, she aids both Diddy and Donkey Kong in tracking down their stolen bananas and defeating Kaptain K. Rool and the Kremling Krew. She goes to Donkey Kong's house, because she heard noises. There, Donkey informs her and Diddy that all the bananas are gone. After, they go and check if their banana depot is also without bananas, and they realized that it is empty as well. Dixie finds a hole from where the thieves entered. Diddy enters the hole and finds a Kremkoin. Then they realize that the Kremlings are behind the disappearance of the bananas and decide to teach the Kremlings a lesson.

The three of them enter the hole that leads to the jungle. Then Dixie notices a wasp, and quickly, Donkey Kong throws a barrel at it. Dixie looks at the stings and says that a sting would have hurt. In the way, they find Rambi and the three of them ride him. Afterward, they find themselves around many Kremlings. Rambi takes out all the Kremlings, and they continue their way to King K. Rool. After they reach the mountains, Rambi leaves them. They start climbing the mountain until they arrive to a place where the Kremlings pull the rope up. Donkey Kong throws Dixie upwards so she can let the rope down. After they reach the top, a Necky starts attacking them, but Donkey Kong takes him out quickly. Afterward, they reach the portal, but it is locked. They successfully open the portal with the Kremkoin. Inside the portal, they are attacked by Kremlings. After beating the Kremlings a giant Kremling appears. The Kongs escape from him through a narrow tunnel.
In the tunnel, they find a mine cart. They start racing against the Kremlings, but, as the distance between them increased, the mine cart becomes dangerous. After the rails ended, the Kongs land on a swamp. Diddy then realizes they are not the only ones swimming in the swamp; Krocheads are all around them. They all quickly go up to a crashed boat, and while thinking, Donkey Kong remembers something. He starts to jump on flies until he reaches land. Diddy and Dixie repeats. Dixie realizes they are in the Lost World. Dixie climbs a wall and sees King K. Rool in the other side with all the bananas. Suddenly, Dixie falls and the Kremling sees her. Donkey Kong and Diddy quickly jumps and helps her. A fight against the Kremlings starts. King K. Rool starts shooting pineapples, but Donkey Kong evades them. He then finds an explosive barrel and throws it to him, which defeats him. The Kongs finally recover the bananas.

Dixie Kong appears in the fourteenth issue of the Super Mario-kun manga comics. Even though this issue is based on Super Mario World 2: Yoshi's Island, the end of the comic features Donkey Kong Country and Donkey Kong Country 2: Diddy's Kong Quest. Dixie is featured with her boyfriend, Diddy Kong, while battling Kaptain K. Rool.

Although Dixie does not appear in Donkey Kong 64, Cranky mentions her a few times in the manual. The game marks the debut of Dixie's sister, Tiny, whose abilities are similar to Dixie's.

Dixie Kong has made a few cameos throughout the Super Smash Bros. series in the form of collectible items. In Super Smash Bros. Melee, there is a trophy of Dixie that mentions about her being quick and nimble as well as times she helped save Donkey Kong. In Super Smash Bros. Brawl, there is another trophy of Dixie, and she also has a sticker, based on her artwork from Donkey Konga 2. Dixie's sticker is only usable by Donkey Kong or Diddy Kong, and it increases their launch resistance by 39. Dixie's Super Smash Bros. Brawl trophy mentions about her ponytail helping her for flying and attacking. Both Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS and Super Smash Bros. for Wii U include another trophy of Dixie, whose trophy description mentions that she loves adventuring with Diddy Kong, mentions how she's capable of using her hair for swimming faster, soaring in the sky, and lifting barrels, and refers to her as Diddy's girlfriend. In Super Smash Bros. for Wii U, Dixie is an item in the Smash Tour, and her item provides an extra double jump to the characters for the duration of the battle. In Super Smash Bros. Ultimate, Dixie appears as a spirit, which can be upgraded a spirit of her with Kiddy Kong in the Hovercraft from Donkey Kong Country 3: Dixie Kong's Double Trouble!, and the game also has a Mii Fighter wearable hat based on Dixie Kong that can be found in a chest in World of Light.
Incomplete character data for Dixie Kong in Super Smash Bros. Brawl, implying she was once planned as a character, but was dropped due to technical difficulties. In an interview with Famitsu, Sakurai confirmed that Dixie Kong was planned to be a character with Diddy as a tag team One of Diddy's alternate costumes matches the colors of Dixie Kong.

In the Donkey Konga series, Dixie first appears in Donkey Konga 2, as one of three playable characters while playing songs and mini-games. Dixie retains her playable role in Donkey Konga 3 JP, having the same role as before.

Dixie is a non-playable character in Adventure mode and a playable character in Jungle Jam mode in DK: King of Swing. In Adventure mode, Dixie makes a minor appearance in both the opening and ending cutscenes. As a playable character, Dixie and Wrinkly Kong are tied for the best jumping ability, although Dixie has the worst attack.

Dixie is a minor character in Adventure mode and a playable character in the VS. Mode of DK: Jungle Climber. She is in a vacation in Sun Sun Island, with all the other Kongs. In the opening cutscene, she is seen playing beach volleyball with Diddy and Donkey Kong. Although she is not playable in story mode, she is playable in the game's wireless multiplayer mode as P3. Additionally, she hosts the secret stages, which provide DK and Diddy with several additional DK Coins needed to complete the game with a 100%.

Dixie Kong makes her first appearance in the Super Mario franchise in Mario Superstar Baseball, appearing as an unlockable playable character, where she is voiced by Kahoru Sasajima. She is unlocked by completing Challenge Mode with Donkey Kong's team. Dixie appears as a technique team player on Donkey Kong's team. She has good chemistry with Donkey Kong and Diddy. She uses a stick as a bat, and the sweetspot is the middle of the stick. Her only talent is Clamber, meaning she can climb walls to catch the ball. In stats, she is tied with Baby Luigi and Toadette for the worst batting stat in the game, but she has average pitching and above average fielding and running.

She returns in Mario Super Sluggers. She appears as a team player once again on Donkey Kong's team. In challenge mode, she can be found in the DK Jungle stadium. After being saved from Dark Bones, she asks Mario and the others to find the stone tablet. After doing so she joins the team. She does not need to be unlocked in this game.
She has good chemistry with Tiny, Diddy, Donkey Kong, Baby DK, Funky, and the Pink Mii; she has bad chemistry with King K. Rool, Kritter, and Dry Bones. Compared to the earlier game, her batting stat has improved such that it is no longer the worst, though it remains quite low. Her pitching is worse than it was before and is now among the worst in the game, but her fielding was improved and her running was improved slightly. She again uses a stick as a bat. In this game she is the fastest Kong, but is the worst Kong at batting.
Dixie Kong was available in the Mario Super Sluggers online card collection. She is from the first characters to be released. In Double Play, she can be combined with Donkey Kong to get Donkey Kong's wallpaper. Her rookie year is 1995, which refers to the year she debuted, Donkey Kong Country 2: Diddy's Kong Quest. Her card appears in the Collection wallpaper and appears randomly in the Flipping Frenzy screen-saver. It also appears in the Collection Complete Poster, between Tiny Kong and Diddy Kong.

In Mario Hoops 3-on-3, Dixie is an unlockable character, like in Mario Superstar Baseball. She is also a speedy character, just like Diddy. Dixie can also enter the tourney in which she and her team have to beat different teams. Her special shot is the Cannon Shot, in which she starts spinning and suddenly a barrel cannon falls from the sky and catches the ball, then Dixie back-flips onto the cannon and shoots the ball into the hoop, followed by a red explosion and multicolored confetti. 

Dixie is a playable character in Diddy Kong Racing DS, replacing Conker from the original game. She has below average speed and medium acceleration and handling. She has a high-pitched voice in this game. Diddy Kong Racing DS is the first game which both Dixie and Tiny appear in, as well as Dixie's first appearance in a racing game. When Dixie's animation square shows up when being used by the AI after she attacks the player with a weapon, is overtaken by the player, or is attacked by the player's weapon, the Rare logo can be seen pinned on her hat, although it is silver instead of gold.
During gameplay, Dixie is first called by Diddy Kong; he explains that Timber asks him to help him defeat Wizpig and to find out what happened to Drumstick. They race in several areas, and after beating all the challenges in the area, Dixie (or one of the other racers) races the boss guarding the Wizpig Amulet. If she beats him, he opens the Balloon Pop challenges. Once all the challenges are completed, they could have a rematch against Tricky. If Dixie and the others manage to defeat him, the spell on him would break, and Tricky thanks them by giving the piece of Wizpig's amulet he is guarding. With all the pieces of the amulet, Dixie and the other manage to race against Wizpig, whom after being defeated, teleports away. Dixie, with all the other racers, holds a celebration. During the celebration, Wizpig arrives and asks for a rematch, but this time in his planet, Future Fun Land. After the rematch, Dixie and the others defeat him and again held the celebration, this time without problems.

Dixie is a default character in Donkey Kong Barrel Blast, along with Donkey and Diddy. Her stats are similar to Diddy's. She has his agility, but her boost is maxed (shared with the unlockable Tiny) and her speed is lower. Dixie's rival is Kass. Her drums are pink and have attached what seems to be sky blue upside down flowers. She attacks by swinging her ponytail in front of herself. As all playable characters she had the ability of doing Wild Moves. This is the second racing game in which she appears in and her first appearance on the Wii console.
In the Single Race cutscene, she can be seen, along Donkey Kong, Tiny and Lanky, standing in front of their rivals, Kass, Kritter, Kalypso and Klump. Also, in the Candy Challenges cutscene, Candy seems to be choosing who participates in the challenges and Dixie is raising her hand, while Kritter seems to tell her to be quiet. In the Options cutscene, she is seen running from side to side with a bongo or a toolbox while Funky Kong is fixing his bongos. In the Records cutscene, she is seen along Kludge, Tiny, Funky and Kip looking at a scoreboard. Because she is so small, she often jumps so she can see it as Kludge and Tiny are obstructing her sight.

Dixie Kong made her debut appearance in the Mario Kart series in Mario Kart Tour as the Week 2 spotlight High-End racer of the Jungle Tour. Starting with the Bowser vs. DK Tour, she is a regular High-End driver, and starting with the 2022 Los Angeles Tour, she has her own self-named cup. Her special skill is the Triple Bananas.
Dixie Kong's emblem is derived from the design of the Dixie Kong Barrel in Donkey Kong Country: Tropical Freeze, although the characters are yellow and the background is pink.
Dixie Kong is the only playable Kong from this game to not return in Mario Kart 8 Deluxe as a playable character available in the Mario Kart 8 Deluxe – Booster Course Pass.

Dixie Kong can be seen in the audience behind Donkey Kong in a poster for The Super Mario Bros. Movie with Diddy Kong, Cranky Kong, and Swanky Kong, among various other generic Kongs. During the film, Dixie Kong is shown sitting with Diddy Kong and Chunky Kong in the Great Ring of Kong. When Cranky Kong scolds Diddy Kong for cheering for too long, Dixie Kong glares at Diddy Kong in disapproval for embarrassing himself. Dixie Kong, Diddy Kong, and Chunky Kong react to Cat Mario looking adorable, and cheer for Mario when he wins the match against Donkey Kong.
Dixie Kong's outfit looks slightly different in the film than it does in the games. Rather than a pink knotted shirt, she is shown wearing a pink tank top similar to Diddy Kong with a white star and trimming on it. The Rare logo pin on her hat that was removed in most appearances has been reincluded.

Dixie appears in the board game Nintendo Monopoly, where she takes the place of Atlantic Avenue. She costs $260. Her artwork is from DK: Jungle Climber.
In Super Mario Odyssey, there is a street in New Donk City named "Dixie Street", as well as a sign by the Crazy Cap shop reading "Dixie Theater".

Dixide is a playalbe character in all builds of Diddy Kong Pilot. In the very earliest version of the game shown as Space World 2000, Dixie piloted a red airplane resembling a stealth aircraft: specifically a F-117 Nighthawk. Dixie was intended to have a story mode called "Back to the Light", but no data outside of the title has been found. In the 2001 build, Dixie now drove a red propellor plane with a white backside, similar to Diddy Kong's plane. Her story mode appears to have been removed with the others in this build, leaving only residual data. In the 2003 build of the game, Dixie Kong now drove a pink and white plane. Dixie had similar stats to Diddy, but with higher acceleration and lower weight. This meant Dixie was decent top speed and almost the highest top speed in exchange for the lowest weight. The Dixie Cup would've been the first cup for Team Krem and ended in a boss fight with Dixie Kong, where she attacked with machine gun fire and by dropping storm clouds behind her. When the game was finalized as Banjo-Pilot, Dixie was replaced with Jinjo, as shown by their shared statistics, plane, and boss battle.

Dixie is a light-brown furred Kong who has a thick blonde ponytail tied with a light blue band. She also has bangs, and the hair at the sides of her bangs is longer and curled. Unlike Diddy Kong, with whom she shares a strong resemblance, she seems to have no tail. She wears what appears to be a short pink top and can be recognized by her trademark pink beret hat. In artwork for the Super Nintendo games, Dixie is shown with a red headband under her hat, most visibly in a piece where the hat is bouncing offMedia:DiddyandDixie.jpg, although this does not appear elsewhere. She typically wears large blue pearl earrings, although these were originally small and golden. She is almost always seen having her top tied, except in her artwork for DK: King of Swing. In the original Donkey Kong Country series, Dixie had pink nail varnish on her toes, but this was removed in all games after Donkey Konga 2. Her hat is occasionally shown to have a gold Rare logo pin attached to it in artwork from some of her earlier appearances, but this ceased being used entirely following Rare's purchase by Microsoft, except in The Super Mario Bros. Movie. Dixie also used to wear pink knee pads, but these were removed since DK: King of Swing. Dixie was originally depicted with four fingers and three toes, but was given five fingers and toes in Donkey Konga 2 onwards. In Donkey Kong Country: Tropical Freeze, Dixie does not have eyelids, similar to Diddy Kong; instead, her pupils animate whenever she blinks.
In Donkey Kong Country 2: Diddy's Kong Quest, the second team's Dixie in the Two Player Contest mode has purple clothes and crimson red hair (the color of her bubblegum and juice box in her idle animations change to reflect this). In the Two Player Contest mode of Donkey Kong Country 3: Dixie Kong's Double Trouble!, her Player 2 palette has violet clothes and her normal blonde hair. In DK: King of Swing, her alternate colors for a second player (also selectable in single player by pressing up or down) include blue clothes and red hair, which may be a reference to her Two Player Contest colors in Donkey Kong Country 2. The colors for a third player reverse her hair and clothes, giving her pink hair and a yellow outfit, while the fourth player is given a Dixie with royal purple hair and green clothes as default.
In the comics, Dixie retains her original look. In the cartoons, she has much lighter, almost yellow fur. She still wears a pink hat, but now wears a light blue shirt with a flower in it (which Tiny Kong's design is inspired from) and pink converse shoes. Unlike in the games, she does not have earrings.

Dixie is generally fearless and has a love for adventure, and while she eagerly engages upon Diddy's quest to save Donkey Kong she is also happy to go on adventures herself, as seen when she saves both of them with the aid of Kiddy Kong in Donkey Kong Country 3: Dixie Kong's Double Trouble! and searches for the Lost World in Donkey Kong Land III. In games such as DK: Jungle Climber, it is shown that she likes playing with Donkey Kong and Diddy. She is also one of the most active Kongs, and known to enjoy sports, joining in with Diddy and Donkey when they play basketball and baseball. Her demeanor is slightly tomboyish and assertive, but also cheerful and lively. Her hobbies include blowing bubbles and mixing banana milkshakes, which is seen in her idle animation as chewing bubblegum and then briefly sitting down to drink a banana milkshake in Donkey Kong Country 2: Diddy's Kong Quest, although the latter was removed in Donkey Kong Country 3. She even owns a Gumball Popgun which she uses in Donkey Kong Country: Tropical Freeze. She is also very musically inclined, perhaps moreso than any other Kong, showing her love for guitars in her debut in Donkey Kong Country 2 and playing one during the ending of Tropical Freeze, as well as playing air guitar when left idle for awhile. She has a habit of headbanging her remarkable hair when playing guitar and appears to be fond of rock music. In Donkey Kong Country: Tropical Freeze, she seems to have got a little more mature and a little less tomboyish. Her trophy description for Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS / Wii U implies that she probably takes great care of her hair. In Donkey Kong Country 2, when thrown away by Diddy or hit by an enemy, she starts crying; this also occurs in Donkey Kong Country 3 after being thrown away by Kiddy or after being hit by an enemy attack (on an extra note, when a player enters a cheat in Donkey Kong Country 3: Dixie Kong's Double Trouble!, her crying sound effect plays.
In the cartoons, Dixie is portrayed as a friendly and somewhat childish character. In one of the episodes, she even befriends a Kremling. She is also shown to really care about the others; she always tries to help her friends. Dixie also loves animals; during the show, she has different pets.

Dixie Kong's greatest asset is her long, blonde ponytail. Her ponytail has the ability to rotate as a helicopter, allowing Dixie to slow down her fall, control her descent to the ground when she is in the air, and expand her jump. She can also use her ponytail to lift Barrels, whip enemies, and as a propeller to traverse underwater. Her ponytail has significant amount of strength, being able to toss Kiddy Kong into the air, lift Donkey Kong from the ground while using her helicopter technique, and it is even capable of pounding the ground. Although she is a bit slower than Diddy Kong, the versatility of her ponytail more than makes up for it. Swimming in the water is second nature to Dixie due to having grown up on an island. In Mario Hoops 3-on-3 she has the ability Cannon Shot, which consists in her summoning a barrel to shoot the ball. In DK: King of Swing, she is an exceptionally high jumper and can attack by performing an aerial attack, which glows red when charged. In Donkey Kong Barrel Blast, she attacks with acrobatic flips and had the ability of doing Wild Moves. She is talented in playing an electric guitar, as seen in Donkey Kong Country 2: Diddy's Kong Quest—where she plays it whenever the player finishes a level with her—and in Donkey Kong Country: Tropical Freeze—where she plays the guitar before the credits start. She is also skilled at playing bongos. In Donkey Kong Country: Tropical Freeze, Dixie has a popgun of her own which fires bubblegum.

The development team of Donkey Kong Country wanted to take risks and surprise players: As a result, it was decided to replace Donkey Kong with a new character. The idea to give Dixie her trademark ponytail came after the game's director Gregg Mayles saw a piece of concept art that had the character depicted with long, flowing hair and him thinking that this could be used for gameplay opportunities. Talking about Dixie's inclusion, Mayles explained that the decision to make her female was not born out of any particular desire for female representation and that the character's gender was decided before the ponytail design came about.

 

Diddy Kong is Dixie's boyfriend in both the games and the show. She began a relationship with Diddy Kong after the events of Donkey Kong Country, and helps him save Donkey Kong in Donkey Kong Country 2: Diddy's Kong Quest and saves both of them in Donkey Kong Country 3: Dixie Kong's Double Trouble. Dixie is one of the characters called by Diddy in Diddy Kong Racing DS. In Mario Superstar Baseball and Mario Super Sluggers, the two of them share good chemistry. Dixie is shown trying to kiss Diddy in certain episodes of the Donkey Kong Country television series, and in "Kong for a Day", she quickly gets mad at Donkey Kong when one of the Kremlings made it seem like he had been hitting on her and badmouthing her boyfriend.

Dixie and Donkey Kong are close friends, with DK acting as a big brother figure to Dixie. Dixie rescued him in Donkey Kong Country 2: Diddy's Kong Quest and Donkey Kong Country 3: Dixie Kong's Double Trouble! In baseball games, Dixie shares good chemistry with DK. Donkey Kong is protective of Dixie, notably when a Dry Bones threatens her. Dixie Kong also attended DK's birthday and helped him and the group take their home back from the Snowmads in Donkey Kong Country: Tropical Freeze.

Kiddy and Dixie are cousins and have a close relationship. He helped her save their friends in Donkey Kong Country 3: Dixie Kong's Double Trouble!

Dixie's younger sister is Tiny Kong. However, aside from both accompanying Diddy in Diddy Kong Racing DS and sharing good chemistry in Mario Super Sluggers, the two have not been shown interacting to any extent, with their kinship not even being mentioned in any official material since Donkey Kong 64.

Dixie and Candy do not interact much in the games, but in the show, they are shown to be great friends, a parallel to their boyfriends' friendship, and hang out together at times, being seen searching for treasure, babysitting, going for x-ray examinations and vaccinations, planning a surprise party, discussing elections, and making wedding invitations together.

Funky and Dixie are friendly with each other, sharing good chemistry in Mario Super Sluggers. They are default partners in DK: King of Swing. In the Options cutscene of Donkey Kong Barrel Blast, Dixie is shown running around straightening out Funky's tools per his directions while he tinkers with his barrel rockets. In the show, Funky gives Dixie pilot lessons.

Smack a hit!
Crack a long hit!
Beat Peach's team!
Make a big play!
Strike 'em out!
Climb up the wall and make a catch!