Dizzy is a status ailment found in almost every Super Mario role-playing game. Under its effect, victims either have a chance to miss attacks or are unable to attack at all.

Dizziness in Paper Mario can affect Mario and his enemies alike, including bosses. Mario can inflict this status ailment on enemies with the Dizzy Dial item, Kooper's Dizzy Shell, or the Dizzy Stomp badge. A small blue spiral will appear over the dizzy character's head, signifying their inability to move for a few turns. Dizziness tends to affect flying enemies more than grounded enemies. For example, Medi Guys will remain dizzy for a full turn longer than a common Shy Guy affected by the same attack.
The only enemies that can cause dizziness are Dark Koopas and Groove Guys.

In Paper Mario: The Thousand-Year Door, the Dizzy status ailment returns. However, instead of negating the ability to attack, the victim's attacks will have a 50-50 chance of missing the target. In the case of FP-powered moves or items, the FP is subtracted when the attack begins, meaning Mario and his partners could waste FP should they miss; attack-dealing items may also fail to hit a target. Ms. Mowz has a Tease attack that can make enemies dizzy, the Dizzy Dial item can inflict the ailment on all of the user's foes, and a falling stage prop can also suddenly cause it on any participant of the battle. There are no enemies in this game who can inflict it without items.

In Super Paper Mario, the player can use Fleep to briefly make enemies dizzy, rendering them unable to move or attack for a few seconds. In addition, detonating Boomer will cause any type of Boomboxer currently onscreen to become dazed and unable to attack.
Mario and Co. can become dizzy (known here as Flipped) upon touching a Reversya Cursya, as well as using a Love Pudding. When inflicted, the controls will be reversed for a short time. Using Piccolo, however, will instantly cure it.

Dizzy returns in Paper Mario: Sticker Star with the same effect as Paper Mario: The Thousand-Year Door. The Slaphammer sticker, Lightbulb Thing or lightning from a Battle Spin can sometimes make enemies dizzy. When Mario gets dizzy, he will lose balance, causing him to sometimes miss his targets. Using Jump stickers could result in Mario falling on his face. Mario could swing hammers faster than normal, and his projectiles from Fire Flowers or Ice Flowers have a chance to be thrown off course. He will not be able to block more than once, run away from the battle or use defensive stickers such as the Spike Helmet, the Frog Suit, the Super Boot, the Tail, the Leaf or any variants of the aforementioned stickers. Enemies that become dizzy often have unique animations when they miss. For example, Goombas will roll over if their attack misses.

Dizzy reappears in Paper Mario: Color Splash under the name "Blinded", serving the same function as Paper Mario: The Thousand-Year Door and Paper Mario: Sticker Star. When Mario or an Enemy Card ally gets hit by Shy Bandit's paint, they will be blinded and their attacks will miss. The same can happen to a summoned Enemy Card ally if the attack hits them. On the Sunset Express, Larry can also blind Mario with the train's smokestack and will keep doing so until the Cork Thing is used to clog the smokestack.
Blinded can also be inflicted on enemies by using the Lemon, Lightbulb, and Salt and Pepper Things. Blinded enemies will miss their attacks for several turns, mostly using the same animations from Sticker Star when they do so. Another variant of Blinded is caused by certain Enemy Card attacks. While not mentioned ingame, this variant gives enemies a chance to miss their turn, similarly to the status in the original Paper Mario, and if they are jumped on in this state, they become crumpled.

Dizziness in the Mario & Luigi series is represented by two stars above the victim's head and their disoriented idle pose (for the brothers except Paper Mario prior to Mario & Luigi: Brothership) or their "damaged" sprite (for Paper Mario and enemies prior to Brothership). The status ailment serves the same purpose it did in Paper Mario; the affected character is unable to do anything until it wears off. For the purposes of Special Attacks, the dizzy character is considered to have fallen in combat until cured.

In Mario & Luigi: Superstar Saga and Mario & Luigi: Superstar Saga + Bowser's Minions, the Advanced Cyclone Bros. attack of Luigi's can cause dizziness to enemies. Hammer and Thunderhand First Strikes also cause dizziness to the enemy party for up to two turns in the original game and in the remake, respectively. Using Dunk Hammer underneath an overworld enemy will make it spin around in the air and become dizzy when the player starts a battle.
An Oucher Glass's sand ball attack, Popple's hammer attack, a Hammer Bro.'s hammer throw attack, a Bob-omb's explosion, or Bowletta's star attack can get Mario and Luigi dizzy.

The affliction is far more common in Mario & Luigi: Partners in Time, as hammer attacks and some Bros. Items such as the Smash Egg and the Trampoline can cause dizziness to enemies. Many enemies' attacks can cause the brothers to become dizzy as well, with examples being Shroids' spiked ball attack, Shroobsworths' dark meteor, and Elder Princess Shroob's meteor.

The Dizzy status effect returns in Mario & Luigi: Bowser's Inside Story and Mario & Luigi: Bowser's Inside Story + Bowser Jr.'s Journey with the same functions from Mario & Luigi: Partners in Time. Mario's and Luigi's solo Hammer attacks, the Bros. Attacks Super Bouncer, Spin Pipe, and Magic Window, alongside the Brawl Attacks Bob-omb Blitz and Broggy Bonker, all have a chance to inflict this effect on enemies. Enemy attacks such as Midbus's iron ball, and the Thwomps thrown by Junker and Junker X can cause this status effect.

The Dizzy effect returns again in Mario & Luigi: Dream Team, having the same effect as the previous games.  Some enemies like Bandits, Grumbells and Lob-ombs can make Mario and Luigi dizzy. Items like the Shock Bomb can be used to inflict it on most enemies. Equipping a Spin Hammer grants a chance to make targets dizzy when using hammer-based attacks.

The Dizzy effect returns once again in Mario & Luigi: Paper Jam, functioning nearly the same as it did in previous games. Alternatively, the variation Crumpled, introduced in Paper Mario: Sticker Star, affects only paper characters.

In Mario & Luigi: Brothership, Mario and Luigi can potentially stun their enemies with the Dizzifying Attack Battle Plug if they score an Excellent! rating with a Jump or Hammer attack. Additionally, enemies that get stunned will no longer get stuck in their "damaged" sprite, instead getting their own disoriented idle poses.

Dizziness in the Super Smash Bros. series (known here as being stunned) occurs when the player's shield breaks. Dizzy characters cannot act for a short period of time, though it can be interrupted by a knockback-dealing attack. Players can recover faster by pressing buttons repeatedly. 
If executed correctly, Mewtwo's Disable will inflict dizziness on opponents. Other causes of dizziness include being in the field of Luigi's Final Smash "Negative Zone" in Super Smash Bros. Brawl, King K. Rool's self-infliction upon shattering his belly armor in Super Smash Bros. Ultimate, and being hit by a Deku Nut.