Donkey Kong Country Returns 3D is a side-scrolling 2.5D platformer title for the Nintendo 3DS released in May 2013. It is a port of the 2010 Wii title Donkey Kong Country Returns, with some additional content,  as well as the only entry in the Donkey Kong franchise for the Nintendo 3DS family. Donkey Kong Country Returns 3D is the 15th best-selling game for the Nintendo 3DS, selling 1.52 million copies worldwide, as of March 31, 2014. It was selected to be one of the 2014 Platinum Reward choices for Club Nintendo members. The eShop version of this game requires 17,668 blocks (approximately 2.1 GB) to be downloaded. Due to the large size of this software, it is impossible to store it without a high-capacity SD Card.

Donkey Kong Country Returns 3D has all the levels from the original Wii version, as well as 8 levels exclusive to this version. These levels are all present in the new Cloud world. The Golden Temple stage from the Wii version is also located in this world and is now level 9-9. The new levels are as follows:

This game offers two different control schemes. The default control scheme utilizes the . An alternative control scheme, which utilizes the , can be selected via the game's Options screen.

If players get a shiny gold medal after clearing a stage in Time Attack mode and, at the same time, receive a message window advising them to take a break, the window will appear to separate the medal and its shine sparkles. Additionally, while everything behind the message window is darkened, the sparkles preserve their brightness. This visual bug demonstrates that the layer corresponding to the sparkles was overlapped on the user interface elements.

In Topsy Turvy, if Donkey Kong and Diddy Kong attempt to climb the curved slope just beneath the Slot Machine Barrel using a Kong Roll, they will stick to the slope midway while rolling in place.

Donkey Kong™, along with his trusted side-kick Diddy Kong™, makes his triumphant debut on the Nintendo 3DS™ system in this barrel-blasting, rail-riding, ground-pounding adventure. The original Donkey Kong Country Returns has been re-mastered and updated for portable play! Run, jump, climb and defeat enemies through over 65+ levels spanning 8 worlds on Donkey Kong Island.
Unlock an all-new 9th world with 8 brand new levels. Select the Original Mode to play the game with the same rules and settings as the Wii version, or try the New Mode that gives you an additional heart, as well as new items to help on your quest to recover Donkey Kong's stolen banana hoard!

Go ape with the swingin' king of the jungle! Donkey Kong and his simian sidekick Diddy Kong are back for more action-packed platforming antics in Donkey Kong Country Returns 3D, an enhanced version of Wii adventure Donkey Kong Country Returns, only on Nintendo 3DS and Nintendo 3DS XL!

On May 24, 2013, to celebrate the release of the game in North America, Nintendo partnered with the Los Angeles Zoo during the Memorial Day weekend, and held a Donkey Kong Country Returns 3D experience for fans. The day's activities included a visit from Donkey Kong, feedings of the zoo's gorillas, and a place where visitors could play Donkey Kong Country Returns 3D. The Campo Gorilla Reserve was officially renamed to "Donkey Kong Country Returns 3D at Campo Gorilla Reserve."
The actor playing Donkey Kong, Parker Mills, would later sue Nintendo on the ground that improper care during the event resulted in severe health problems.