Dr. Mario Express, known as A Little Bit of... Dr. Mario in PAL regions and as Chotto Dr. Mario (ちょっとDr. MARIO, lit. "A little bit of Dr. Mario") in Japan, is a puzzle game released on DSiWare for the Nintendo DSi for 500 DSi points and the fifth main installment in the Dr. Mario series. This game has the same design and most of the same music as Dr. Mario Online Rx, but unlike the WiiWare version, it does not offer a multiplayer mode or feature the Virus Buster mini-game (which can be found as part of the DSiWare games of its original parent series, Brain Age Express, instead). Moreover, this game does not have touch control functionality.

The basic gameplay for Dr. Mario is to eliminate viruses by using capsules to line it up against the same colored viruses so that a line of four in a row or column is formed. The game is over if the capsule is blocked at the top-middle of the bottle.
There are two main modes in this game: Classic and Vs. CPU:

There are three options in the menu: Quick Drop toggles the ability to instantly drop capsules with the up button, Capsule Ghost Image shows a translucent image of where the capsule will fall, and Background Color changes the color of the background between 1 (red), 2 (blue), and 3 (green).

Mario™ once again dons his stethoscope to battle the forces of illness in this downloadable version of the classic puzzle game. Use vitamins to eliminate viruses in Classic mode, or play against a computer opponent in Vs. CPU mode. Make an appointment with Dr. Mario today!

Dr. Mario is back, to cure your puzzle fever! A Little Bit of... Dr. Mario brings you this classic game in an easy-to-digest portable form for your Nintendo DSi! Enjoy the original inspiration for Germ Buster (as seen in More Brain Training from Dr Kawashima). Simply defeat all the viruses in the bottle by lining up coloured capsules that match the colour of the viruses. Watch out, because if the bottle fills to the brim with capsules, it's Game Over! Choose Classic Mode to play solo, or battle against the computer in Vs CPU Mode in a race to clear all the viruses first. You can also set the number of viruses and game speed, to tune the difficulty level to your liking. Please note that elements of this software may have been featured in previously released software.