Dream Shooting is a Dream Event that appears exclusively in the Nintendo DS version of Mario & Sonic at the Olympic Games. The objective of the event is to score as many points as possible by shooting the various targets, with the event taking place in Dream Castle. It is unlocked by completing the Cosmos Circuit.

In this event, the player plays three different stages, each taking place in a different location in or outside the castle and with different enemies. The first stage takes place outside the castle and has Kikis, Flappers, Character Balloons and Egg Pawns both with and without shields. The second stage takes place in the castle hall and has Flappers, both types of Egg Pawn and Character Balloons. The final stage has Flappers, Egg Pawns with shields, Character Balloons and a giant Egg Pawn with a shield as the boss. The player moves their sight around by sliding on the Touch Screen, and shoots by pressing  or . If they run out of shots, they must quickly slide left and right on the Touch Screen to reload. The player also reloads automatically at the start of every stage and when their character moves forward. The player gains points by shooting the targets, with the type of target awarding different amounts of points. They can also score more points for hitting several targets consecutively. Kikis jump up and down and can be defeated in one shot, and give three points. Flappers are also defeated in one shot and award four points, and may drop Item Boxes that they were carrying. Egg Pawns take several hits and award three points for each hit. Egg Pawns with shields also take several hits, though hits when they are holding up the shield do not score the player any points. They award four points for each successful hit, and fifteen when fully defeated. The final boss is larger but acts in the same way, giving five points per hit, and 50 extra points to the character who defeats him. Character Balloons award ten points if hit, however if the player its one that is not their own, the character whose Emblem is on the balloon will lose ten points. The player can also it the Item Boxes, which give them no points but an item, which is automatically used. The items and their effects are:

Super MushroomMakes your targeting sight bigger for a limited time.
StarmanAmmo isn't depleted by shooting for a limited time.
BombAffects area round it when it explodes.
BalloonDoubles the power of each shot for a limited time.