Dreamy Neo Bowser Castle is the Dream World version of Neo Bowser Castle in Mario & Luigi: Dream Team. It is the last dream world area in the game. Kamek is fought three times here, followed by a giant boss fight against Bowser's dreamy self and a different boss fight with Antasma.
Kamek uses his magic to scramble the doorways of Neo Bowser Castle, then retreats to Dreamy Neo Bowser Castle with a Dream Portal created by Antasma. Luigi sleeps on a hovering Koopa Clown Car, opening a portal for Mario to chase Kamek. Kamek flees from this battle, although the spell is broken. Kamek does this two more times in the real world, and the Bros. have to return two more times, defeating Kamek in the third battle. After Kamek is defeated, Mario and Luigi enter the the main hall of Neo Bowser Castle, where three portals from Dreamy Neo Bowser Castle spew intense flames that block the passage. Mario has to enter the Dream World for each flame, and destroy the flamethrowers. Past the main hallway, the Bros. see Bowser sleeping in a strange device and being protected by a barrier. To wake him up, Prince Dreambert binds himself to the vines allowing passage into Bowser's Dream. Mario and Dreamy Luigi confront Dreamy Bowser in the final Giant Battle. After defeating Bowser in the dream world, he wakes up, causing the cessation of dream energy to the castle.
Antasma is later battled in the Dream World, the only section of the game that takes place in a dreamy version of the outdoor/rooftop section of Neo Bowser Castle.
Neo Bowser Castle is destroyed during the game, and it is unknown if Dreamy Neo Bowser Castle still exists afterward.
Dreamy Neo Bowser Castle has multiple rooms where lava rises from below. The lava only starts to rise after Mario passes a boundary in the room, and resets if it touches Mario or Luigi. Flamethrowers are recurring obstacles.

Two rooms in Bowser's Dream are unrevisitable areas. The cannon that launches the Bros into the room with cutscene with Bowser and the minions can no longer be used after the battle. The room where the battle takes place is exited through a Warp Pipe that ends in the ceiling of a prior room, with no platforms to climb back up nor mechanics to allow entry otherwise.