Dry Dry Ruins is a place of ancient ruins in Dry Dry Desert. It is the catacombs of Tutankoopa's crypt, and the native home of Chomps, including Stone Chomps. Goombario refers to it as an illusion ruin due to how difficult it is to reveal. It is lined by many pillars adorned with Chomp statues, and holds the sarcophagi of many Pokey Mummies. According to a Dryite in Dry Dry Outpost, Dry Dry Ruins is apparently the remnants of King Mousta's destroyed kingdom. Dry Dry Ruins is where the second Star Spirit, Mamar, is imprisoned in Paper Mario. In Chapter 2, Mario and his partners must seek Moustafa's help in Dry Dry Outpost in order to find the ruins in the desert, where they will defeat Tutankoopa in order to rescue Mamar. The archaeologist Kolorado also explores the ruins. Dry Dry Ruins contains many puzzles Mario and his partners must solve in order to proceed further. The Super Hammer is found in the ruins, as well as several other collectible items such as the Artifact which may be brought to Kolorado in order to obtain a Star Piece.
Dry Dry Ruins is first mentioned when Princess Peach and Twink read Bowser's diary at the end of Chapter 1. The diary states that it is where a Star Spirit is being held, and it can be found in Dry Dry Desert after solving a mystery. Upon reading this, Princess Peach asks Twink to find Mario and tell him the information, which Mario receives when he comes back to Toad Town after clearing Chapter 1.

Mario and his partners encounter Dry Dry Desert in Chapter 2. There, they find that Kolorado is also exploring the desert in order to find Dry Dry Ruins. His assistants explain that they have tried to gather information from the outpost to the east, but without success. After Mario goes there and solves the riddle, he is allowed to see the local leader, Moustafa, who explains that his ancestors have watched the ruins over generations to keep the evil folks out of it. Since he trusts Mario, he gives Mario the Pulse Stone, which will guide Mario to the ruins. After Mario places the Pulse Stone in a stone pedestal in Dry Dry Desert, Dry Dry Ruins rises out of the sand before him.
As Mario and his partners progress through Dry Dry Ruins, they will hear Tutankoopa's voice warning them to run away. They have to collect Ruins Keys on their way in order to unlock several doors. When they reach a room with rotatable stairways, Tutankoopa seems frightened, but continues frightening them. After they solve the puzzle with the stairways, they find the Super Hammer, which allows them to smash Stone Blocks to collect the Pyramid, Diamond, and Lunar Stone. There are pedestals in a corridor down in the ruins. After Mario places the stones in the pedestals in the right order, stairs descend, opening the way to Tutankoopa's room. By defeating Tutankoopa, Mario and his partners save the second Star Spirit in the game, Mamar. This marks the end of Chapter 2 of the game.

If Mario visits Moustafa after Chapter 2, Moustafa will ask Mario about Dry Dry Ruins. He is first shocked at the revelation that Bowser's minions had once been in the ruins, and then grateful to Mario for having gotten rid of them. Later in the game, he writes to Mario, saying that Bowser's creatures no longer loot in the ruins, though some relics are missing. He also mentions a suspicious Koopa, which probably refers to Kolorado. Kolorado also sends Mario a letter, saying that he has just finished his exhausting research of the ruins, but has not found any treasure as valuable as he has hoped. However, there is an Artifact in the ruins that meets his satisfaction. If Mario brings it to him, he will give Mario a Star Piece as thanks.
At the beginning of Chapter 3, Toad Town News reports that the ancient ruins have been discovered by Kolorado, and Mario may have played a key role. Later in the game, there is also a piece of advertisement for the "Exploration Tour of Dry Dry Ruins" offered by Toad Town Tours. Dry Dry Ruins is also the destination of the second Trading Event.

Dry Dry Ruins' entrance is located in Dry Dry Desert, found in the area which is 2 screens east and 3 screens north of Kolorado's camp. After the Pulse Stone is placed on the stone pedestal at the center of the area, the ruins rise out of the sands along with a recovery block to the left of it. Dry Dry Ruins looks like a temple, with stairs in the front of it leading to the inside.
In the second room from the entrance, there are three sarcophagi of Pokey Mummies. The second contains a Spike Shield badge. 
Going all the way right leads Mario to a hub room, with rooms containing a Ruins Key as well as a Star Piece to the upper-right and the Pyramid Stone to the lower-right, the latter of which requires the Super Hammer to get. To proceed farther, Mario needs to use the Ruins Key on the lowest door to the left side and head west.
The next room is a long one, containing the Artifact. Defeating all the enemies in the room opens the door to the left.
To the left is a new hub room, with the Super Hammer room to the upper-left. Mario needs to solve the stairway puzzle to get the Super Hammer. He can also fall on the ledge above the Super Hammer area to find the Slow Go badge.
This two-floor hub room also has two doors on the first floor. They both lead to an even lower area, with the Diamond Stone room to the left and the Lunar Stone room to the right. There is also a Super Block and a trampoline which can be used to get back to the previous area. After getting all three of the stones (all of which involve breaking a Stone Block and battling two Stone Chomps), Mario needs to place them in receptacles in a corridor with Chomp statues. This unlocks the stairs to Tutankoopa's room, with a recovery block and a Save Block on the way.

In addition to the ones listed below, enemies found in this area can also drop items.