Dry Bones are skeletal versions of Koopa Troopas that are mainly found in towers, castles, and deserts. They often collapse when attacked, but they soon revive and become animate again. However, some methods of attack, such as touching them while in an invincible state, can permanently defeat them. First appearing in Super Mario Bros. 3, Dry Bones have since become a staple in Super Mario games as both enemies and playable characters and have ushered a recurring theme of skeletal Koopas such as Bony Beetle and Dry Bowser. Their name may come from the Biblical verses of Ezekiel 37:1-10, which describes a pile of dry bones coming back to life while making "an odd sound".

Dry Bones are enemies in Super Mario Bros. 3. They are first encountered in World 1-Fortress, and they appear mostly in fortress stages. Dry Bones can be stomped to break into a pile of bones before  shortly afterward. Unlike normal Koopas, Dry Bones are immune to the tail of Raccoon Mario and the fireballs of Fire Mario but can be defeated with a Star or the effects of a Hammer Suit. In the Game Boy Advance version, Dry Bones can be defeated by the Cape Feather, if said item has been added by scanning the "Cape" card with the e-Reader.

Dry Bones return in Super Mario World and its remake, being similar yet difference to their appearance in Super Mario Bros. 3. Dry Bones are encountered in Fortresses and Castles only. Besides a star, Dry Bones can also be defeated with a Cape Feather. They also turn around at ledges, similar to Red Koopa Troopas, instead of just falling. Some of the Dry Bones in this game can throw bones at Mario. Like Koopa Troopas, this is the first game where Dry Bones walk on two feet. Dry Bones were given pink shoes (red in the artwork), and were made slightly larger than Mario and Luigi. Dry Bones are depicted with a visible neck, despite lacking one in the artwork. Bony Beetles resemble squat versions of Dry Bones and use the sprites when breaking apart.

Dry Bones are enemies in New Super Mario Bros., which is also the first appearance of their larger variant, Super Dry Bones, as well as Dry Bowser. Both Dry Bones and Super Dry Bones appear only in Tower and Castle levels, and they can be defeated by a Mega Mushroom, Starman, or a Blue Shell. The main difference with Dry Bones from before is that stomping them now breaks their head off of their body, and if the head falls into lava or a pit, the Dry Bones takes longer to revive. If their bodies are destroyed while crumbled, the head remains for some time before eventually despawning; if they were in the process of rebuilding themselves, the head freezes in place momentarily.

Dry Bones are enemies in Super Mario Galaxy. They are encountered in the Dusty Dune Galaxy, Bowser's Dark Matter Plant and the final level, Bowser's Galaxy Reactor. Unlike normal Koopas, Dry Bones are bipedal, though are hunched stance. Attacking a Dry Bones causes it crumble apart and revive a few seconds later, like before, but besides a stomp, this also occurs if the Dry Bones is spun or hit with a Green Shell. A Dry Bones chases Mario or Luigi upon noticing them, and it it hits him, the Dry Bones cackles similarly to a Boo. The only way to destroy these Dry Bones is by touching them while using a Rainbow Star, destroying them with a Bullet Bill, or luring them into quicksand.

Dry Bones are enemies in New Super Mario Bros. Wii. They are the same as in New Super Mario Bros., though a Dry Bones in the process of recovering can be stomped. Ways to defeat a Dry Bones include using either a Star, a POW Block, a Koopa Shell, or the Ice Flower/Penguin Suit.

Dry Bones in Super Mario Galaxy 2 are similar to the first Super Mario Galaxy. They appear in Bowser Jr.'s Fiery Flotilla, Bowser's Lava Lair, Bowser's Gravity Gauntlet, Bowser Jr.'s Boom Bunker, Bowser's Galaxy Generator, and the Slipsand Galaxy. A Dry Bones can now be defeated from falling into lava, though it does not blow up in a cloud of smoke when this happens, unlike other enemies.

Dry Bones are enemies in Super Mario 3D Land. They are based on their appearance from Super Mario Galaxy and its sequel. They appear alongside many Draglets and Thwomps in most of the castle stages. There are two visual differences: a Dry Bones' head moving upward if it is hit by a fireball, and its eyes flashing red for about one second while recovering. Unlike previous appearances, Dry Bones can be defeated by Invincible Mario or White Tanooki Mario only. A boomerang from Boomerang Mario or tail whip by Tanooki Mario are two other ways a Dry Bones can break apart.

Dry Bones and Big Dry Bones appear in New Super Mario Bros. 2. Dry Bones appear mainly in tower and castle levels, but they have also appeared in non-boss levels such as World 6-A. Dry Bones' design is reused from New Super Mario Bros. Wii, but with three small spikes added to their shells. Besides the usual Star, a Dry Bones can be defeated from a Gold Flower as well. Dry Bones react to "paahs" by dancing similarly to a Koopa Troopa. One trait is retained from Super Mario 3D Land: They can crumble when hit by a tail whip.

Dry Bones and Big Dry Bones both return in New Super Mario Bros. U, New Super Luigi U, and their port as regular enemies. Dry Bones are modeled after their nature in New Super Mario Bros. Wii, although they are no longer affected by lava and, similarly to Super Mario 3D Land, flash a red glare while reconstructing. Dry Bones now have a distinct reaction to vocal riffs of spinning their heads.

Despite Super Mario 3D World and its Nintendo Switch port introducing a winged variety, Parabones, Dry Bones do not appear. However, Parabones are based on Dry Bones from Super Mario Galaxy.

Dry Bones appear in Super Mario Maker and Super Mario Maker for Nintendo 3DS, as well as the similar Big Dry Bones, Parabones, and Fish Bones. Because Dry Bones were not in Super Mario Bros., unique sprites in that game's style were created. The Dry Bones in the Super Mario World game style have some differences from the original game, which includes throwing bones to attack, being smaller to match the size of a Koopa Troopa, and being eaten by Yoshi so that he can spit out a bone in the manner of a fireball, except stronger because it can also defeat some of the more resistant enemies like Buzzy Beetles and Chain Chomps. A Dry Bones turns into a Fish Bone automatically if placed in the underwater course theme.

Dry Bones in Super Mario Run are based on their appearance in New Super Mario Bros. and its sequels. Dry Bones were also made vulnerable to Wall Jumps, Rolling Jumps, and the upward portion of Vaulting Jumps, all of which can defeat a Dry Bones permanently. Dry Bones appear in three levels: Bowser's Castle Hangout, Cutting Edge Spire, and Rings of Fire!. Unlike before, stomping a Dry Bones defeats it and earns the player coins, but it counts to leveling up only if the bones fall offscreen, either through rolling or sliding through it, by using one of the aforementioned jumps, or by being invincible.

In Super Mario Maker 2, Dry Bones retain their role from Super Mario Maker of being enemies that can be placed in courses, including the Super Mario 3D World style despite their absence from the game. Dry Bones and Fishbones were also made separate. The game is the first appearance of the Dry Bones Shell, which is used similarly to a Goomba's Shoe, but there is a similarity to Dry Bones in that Mario can crumble into a pile of bones while crouching.

Dry Bones reappear in Super Mario Bros. Wonder as enemies in the palace levels. They behave the same way as in other games, although Elephant Mario's trunk attack can permanently defeat them.

Dry Bones (referred to as Dry Bones Troopas by Mario in "Do the Koopa") make a few appearances in The Adventures of Super Mario Bros. 3.
A destroyed Dry Bones makes a minor appearance in "Mind Your Mummy Mommy, Mario", inside Queen Mushroomkhamen's pyramid.
In "Never Koop a Koopa", when Princess Toadstool opens the door of Koopa Kastle, a Dry Bones falls from the ceiling, scaring her.
In "Do the Koopa", a Dry Bones reports to King Koopa that Mario, Luigi, Toad and Princess Toadstool have snuck into Dark Land and are attempting to find the Doom Dancer Music Box, after spotting them earlier. Later on, Mario's group encounters more Dry Bones that they crush with the debris of broken Brick Blocks. They are later uncovered and freed by Cheatsy Koopa, Bully Koopa, and Big Mouth Koopa.
In "Recycled Koopa", Dry Bones are one of the species who "invaded" New York City with the trash of the Koopas.

Dry Bones appear in the Super Mario World animated series, in the episode "Send in the Clown" and "The Night Before Cave Christmas". Here, both of them make a very small appearance as they try to keep Mario and Yoshi from infiltrating Bowser's Castle or stop Mario from getting a feather. The Dry Bones grabs a bone from out of its throat and throws it at Mario.

A single Dry Bones appears in the Nintendo Comics System in the story It's Always Fair Weather as the pilot of Bowser's personal helicopter. When Bowser expresses outrage after discovering his image is being used for a carnival dunking booth, the Dry Bones cheerfully responds to his complaint of "I am really insulted!" with "Gee, I'd be flattered!" The two try to ruin the fair with miniature tornadoes created by the helicopter, but are stopped by Mario who uses the copter against Bowser, launching him into the dunking booth with it.

If Mario decides to follow the main road in the Koopahari Desert in Double Trouble, he stomps some Dry Bones on his way to Fort Koopa.
In Koopa Capers, Luigi can find a pit filled with Dry Bones in Bowser's Fortress, and fight several of them if he decides to try and reach a door at the bottom of the hole; the powdered toes of a Dry Bones are also one of the ingredients needed by Wendy O. Koopa for a magic potion she is brewing.
In Flown the Koopa, if Mario thwarts Magikoopa's attempt to freeze him and his brother, Magikoopa then throws out some bones and uses his magic to animate them as two Dry Bones. Depending on how the accompanying puzzle is solved by the reader, the Mario Bros. either trick the Dry Bones into charging into a broom closet and lock the door behind them, or they try to smash the skeletons with their plungers, only to have this backfire on them when the Dry Bones regenerate, combine, and knock them both out.

Skeleton Koopas) in the level Ludwig's Thump Castle Hotel of Hotel Mario. They crumble apart when hit, but resurrect shortly afterward. Unlike before, Skeleton Koopas can be defeated by Fire Mario, though this vulnerability was retained in Paper Mario series, by coincidence.

In Super Mario RPG: Legend of the Seven Stars and the Nintendo Switch remake, Dry Bones appear as enemies in the Sunken Ship. They guard the ship's midsection. The skeletal Koopas have an infinite amount of HP, meaning that regular Attacks never defeat them. The only way to defeat them is with a special attack, which defeats them instantly. When defeated, they simply crumble on the overworld map. However, they always resurrect after a short amount of time and attempt to re-engage battle with Mario. One Dry Bones lives in Monstro Town as part of the Three Musty Fears. A stronger sub-species of Dry Bones known as Vomer makes an appearance in Barrel Volcano.
In the remake, Dry Bones use their modern design as opposed to their design from the original game.

Dry Bones appear in Paper Mario as enemies found in Bowser's Castle. Dry Bones can walk upright and throw bones, similarly to Super Mario World. They can also build more of themselves, with the same amount of HP as the original unit. When a Dry Bones' Heart Points are depleted, it collapses on the ground but remains in battle, reviving itself after two turns. Dry Bones defeated this way do not drop coins or Star Points, but the battle will still end if only collapsed Dry Bones remain on the enemy side. A Dry Bones can be permanently defeated, awarding Mario with coins and Star Points, by using fire and explosion attacks (e.g. Kooper's Fire Shell or Bombette's Bomb), which also ignore their defense and deal an additional 10 damage, allowing these moves to instantly defeat a Dry Bones. If a Dry Bones spots Mario outside battle, they try to throw a bone at him to make the First Strike. Additionally, due to Mario's levels capping at 27 and Dry Bones' level being at 30, they are the only non-boss enemy type in the game that can never be defeated with the First Attack, Spin Attack, or Bump Attack badges.

Dry Bones return in Paper Mario: The Thousand-Year Door in the Palace of Shadow and the Pit of 100 Trials. They retain their behavior of throwing bones to attack and constructing additional Dry Bones as reinforcements. Unlike in the previous game, Dry Bones award Mario with coins and Star Points upon collapsing, though they still remain in battle and revive themselves after two turns if not defeated with fire and explosion attacks such as the Fire Flower, Fire Drive, or Vivian's Fiery Jinx. Fire and explosion attacks, however, no longer deal increased damage to Dry Bones.
This game also introduces three new variants of Dry Bones; Dull Bones, Red Bones, and Dark Bones. Dull Bones and Red Bones are both weaker than the standard Dry Bones, while Dark Bones is the strongest variant in the game, and is capable of constructing ordinary Dry Bones to aid it as reinforcements.
At one point in the Palace of Shadow, a Dark Bones calls in a horde of Dry Bones which swarm in on Mario and his partner, similar to an encounter with a Red Bones in Hooktail Castle. Mario must use his hammer to clear away the Dry Bones and engage the Dark Bones in battle. Doing nothing in this scenario causes a Game Over.
All four types of Dry Bones are later encountered in a room in the Palace of Shadow Tower, where they have to be defeated in order of weakest to strongest. Completing the puzzle gives Mario a Palace Key.

Dry Bones reappear once again in Super Paper Mario, now behaving similarly to their behavior in the 2D games in the Super Mario series. They no longer throw bones to attack, instead walking into Mario, Princess Peach, Bowser, and Luigi in order to deal contact damage. They are immune to damage from non-fire and explosion attacks (such as Bowser's Fire Breath and Boomer's explosions), which only cause them to collapse and revive moments later. Unlike in the Super Mario series, a collapsed Dry Bones remains interactable, and can still be attacked and deal damage in this state. Dry Bones appear in The Underwhere, Underwhere Road, and the Flipside Pit of 100 Trials.
Dull Bones also reappear in this game, and are now stronger than ordinary Dry Bones instead of weaker. They attack by throwing bones, which may act as a callback to both the bone-throwing Dry Bones from Super Mario World and the behavior of Dull Bones and Dry Bones in previous Paper Mario games. A new, even stronger variety is also introduced, known as a Dark Dull Bones.

Dry Bones appear in Paper Mario: Sticker Star, but their appearance is closer to their main series' appearance, unlike the Dry Bones of previous Paper Mario games, whose appearance was based on the species' artwork for Super Mario World. However, like in the previous Paper Mario games, they both lack arms and legs, simply having floating hands and feet. They are primarily found in World 2. Dry Bones also appear during the boss fight against Petey Piranha in Rumble Volcano, where Petey Piranha can spit them out to battle Mario.
A Dry Bones can either attack by throwing a bone or by folding itself into a bone and tossing itself at Mario. If Mario defeats a Dry Bones in battle, it turns into a pile of bones in the overworld, but revives itself shortly after, although Dry Bones defeated during the Petey Piranha battle are permenantly defeated. Outside of battle, Dry Bones can be permenantly defeated if a sarcophagus lid is dropped on them. Defeating a Dry Bones occasionally gives Mario a Bone sticker.

Dry Bones appear in Paper Mario: Color Splash. They maintain the same behavior and appearance as before. Dry Bones can be defeated entirely if certain walls are knocked down onto them. When defeated in battle, their bones fall and turn into a pile, and the Dry Bones revive some seconds later. They appear in Marmalade Valley and Redpepper Crater, as well as the parallel worlds of Vortex Island, Lighthouse Island and Fortune Island. A Dry Bones is the third-round opponent in Roshambo Temple #2, although after Iggy Koopa is defeated, it is replaced with the Rock Paper Wizard until beaten.

Origami Dry Bones appear as enemies in Paper Mario: The Origami King. They appear in Scorching Sandpaper Desert and the Temple of Shrooms. They crumble into a pile of bones immediately after using any attack, and get back up after a while if the other enemies involved in the battle are not defeated. After the sun is restored to the sky, all Dry Bones in the desert are replaced with Bone Goombas.
Regular Dry Bones also appear as NPCs in the Earth Vellumental Temple, Shogun Studios, Overlook Mountain, and the Bonehead Island café where one is found arguing with a Bone Goomba. In Overlook Mountain, a Dry Bones in a collapsed state with a Shell Stone is found behind a wall which must be peeled off with the 1,000-Fold Arms. Olivia assumes that it was a deceased Koopa Troopa, until the Dry Bones reassembles. In Shogun Studios, Mario must trade the baseball for a bone.

Dry Bones appear in Mario & Luigi: Superstar Saga. Dry Bones have a different appearance than usual: they have no shell and walk on four legs, the latter carrying over from Super Mario Bros. 3 and suggesting they are a regional variant akin to Troopeas. Dry Bones are encountered all along Hoohoo Mountain. In battle, a Dry Bones attacks by launching its head at Mario or Luigi, attacking the former if Dry Bones' head spins vertically or the latter if it spins diagonally. The targeted brother can counterattack by jumping on the spinning bone head as it approaches him. If the Dry Bones loses all health from the attack, it explodes. When the Dry Bones are defeated, Mario and Luigi occasionally receive a Mushroom. In the Nintendo 3DS remake, Dry Bones relay their attack differently, by spinning their head clockwise for Mario but counter-clockwise for Luigi. If the counterattack defeats Dry Bones entirely, its body explodes with the regular defeat animation while the head fades away around the same time.

A stronger variety with a purple shell can be found in Teehee Valley. In the remake, Mario & Luigi: Superstar Saga + Bowser's Minions, this stronger variety of Dry Bones was given its own name, Elite Dry Bones, to distinguish it from its weaker counterpart. The original quadrupedal design for Dry Bones is retained for the main story mode; in Minion Quest: The Search for Bowser, Dry Bones appear in their modern design, suggesting that the two types of Dry Bones differ by region. In that mode, they appear as enemies and allies that can be recruited. They are ranged troopers and attack enemies by throwing bones at them. Dry Bones are strong against Koopa Troopas.

Dry Bones reside in Yoob's Belly in Mario & Luigi: Partners in Time. When a battle starts, a Dry Bones throws bones, usually standing still to target only Mario or Luigi, but they can dodge the attack by jumping. Conversely, if the Dry Bones jumps before throwing a bone, the brother takes damage if he jumps while the bone is thrown in his direction. Dry Bones can attack the Bros. in succession: If it clacks, Dry Bones attacks Mario then Luigi, though if it twirls its head, Dry Bones attacks Luigi before Mario.
Later on, large Dry Bones statues appear in Gritzy Desert. When these are encountered, the player has to split the babies and the adults. After doing this, they have to hit four blocks within ten seconds of each other. There are two pairs of blocks in the desert, and once the two pairs are hit, a hidden door to the Koopaseum opens.

In Mario & Luigi: Bowser's Inside Story, some Dry Bones are seen in the Fawful Theater. One is in the lobby of the building, and the rest attend Fawful's show. There are also two Dry Bones standing in the watchtowers of Bowser's mechanized castle during Bowser's fight against it.
Dry Bones return in Mario & Luigi: Bowser's Inside Story + Bowser Jr.'s Journey, where they additionally are found as enemies and recruitable allies in the Bowser Jr.'s Journey mode, first appearing in the level "Bone Storm". Additionally, their winged variants, Parabones, also appear in the game's side story as well, although they appear a little earlier than their regular counterparts.

Dry Bones are part of Kamek's second battle in Mario & Luigi: Dream Team. Their attack is either walking into Mario or throwing bones at him. A Dry Bones can fall apart if Mario jumps on it, then he can aim and kick its segments at Kamek.

Regular Dry Bones appear in Mario & Luigi: Paper Jam during the Dry Bowser boss fight when he uses his inhaling attack, although their paper versions only appear as enemies. Papercraft Dry Bones also appear as enemies in the Papercraft King Boo boss fight.

Mario Superstar Baseball is Dry Bones' first playable appearance. Dry Bones is introduced as a technique character who is part of Bowser's team.  It is a fairly balanced player with batting as its strongest point and fielding as its weakest. Dry Bones bats left, but unlike Koopa Troopa, it also throws with its left hand. Dry Bones has good chemistry with Koopa Troopa and Bowser. This game also introduces his current design, which closer resembles a Koopa Troopa.
Dry Bones also has three variants which act as unique selectable characters. They each sacrifice some running speed for improvement in a different skill.

Dry Bones is a playable character in Mario Super Sluggers, now being featured as a powerful hitter. Dry Bones retains good chemistry with Koopa Troopa and Bowser, as well as color-matching Miis (depending on the variant). Like in Super Mario Galaxy, the Dry Bones in this game have two voice sets: one similar to the previous title's, and an older Boo-like voice from Super Mario 64. Notably, the red variant is named "Dark Bones". In Challenge Mode, Dark Bones kidnaps Dixie Kong and battles with Mario and the other captains.
Dry Bones' variants from the previous installment also return, with many changes from the previous title.

Dry Bones are enemies in Super Princess Peach, the first game that introduces their modern design. Dry Bones appear in the levels Shriek Mansion and Bowser's Villa, where they throw bones to attack, but these can be intercepted using Perry. Dry Bones have a variant, Sad Dry Bones, which throw bones faster than them. A Dry Bones breaks apart when stomped or hit, as usual, but revives after three seconds, faster than in other platforming games. Dry Bones can be defeated properly using either the Joy vibe's cyclone or the Rage vibe.

Dry Bones is unlockable as a playable character in Mario Party 7 by paying 1,000 Cruise Mileage Points in the Duty-Free Shop. The Magic Orb is Dry Bones' special Orb, which doubles the number on the dice block and then turns Dry Bones invisible. Dry Bones is partnered with Boo in artwork for the gameMedia:Dry Bones and Boo Artwork - Mario Party 7.png.

Dry Bones, unlike before, is a starting playable character in Mario Party 8. Its partner is once again Boo, and their team name is the "Scary Pair".

A Dry Bones is fought as the boss of the Hexoskeleton minigame in Mario Party DS. In the story mode, Dry Bones had taken over DK's Stone Statue and turned Donkey Kong into stone, to which Diddy Kong asks the player characters to help. Dry Bones is a hazard on the board itself, where if a player stops on a Green Space near its coffin, Dry Bones wakes up, lifts it slightly, and slams it with enough force to send the player to either the starting point or right before the Star. Dry Bones can be fought in Hexoskeleton after the player becomes the Super Star, and during the minigame, as Dry Bones tries to crush the player, they Ground Pound switches to attack Dry Bones with lightning. The player can obtain a trophy of a defeated Dry Bones by winning Hexoskeleton five times.

In Mario Party 9, a giant Dry Bones is the mini-boss of Boo's Horror Castle, being fought in the minigame Deck Dry Bones. In the minigame, Dry Bones jumps from platforms, and it takes damage by choosing cards with the same pattern as the platform it is standing on. There are Dry Bones cards that damage players who select them, costing each of the affected players a point.
In the minigame Ruins Rumble, three Dry Bones appear have to be defeated along with the opponents to win. Dry Bones appear also in Smash Compactor, though are not interactable, since they only raise the compactor after each round; one sometimes stands on top of the compactor.

Dry Bones appear in Mario Party: Island Tour as non-playable characters. They appear in the minigame Tap Dash, and as a judge in minigame The Choicest Voice. A Big Dry Bones appears on the board Star-Crossed Skyway and hands out seven Mini Ztars on the third and fourth Star Stages. 

A Dry Bones makes a background appearance in the Bowser amiibo Party board in Mario Party 10.

While regular Dry Bones do not appear in Mario Party: Star Rush, Mega Dry Bones appears as a boss.

The sole appearance of a Dry Bones in Mario Party: The Top 100 is as a cameo on the Mario Party 7 box art in Collection mode.

A Dry Bones appears as an unlockable playable character in Super Mario Party for the first time since Mario Party 8. Unlike the other unlockable characters, there is no exact criteria for unlocking Dry Bones, as it is unlocked randomly after playing different modes. Dry Bones' Dice Block has three 1's and three 6's on it.

Much like Mario Party: The Top 100, the only appearance of a Dry Bones in Mario Party Superstars is as a cameo on the Mario Party 7 box art, this time in the Data House. The player can set Mario Party 7 as their favorite Mario Party game on their Mario Party Card, which causes the box art to be displayed on it. A Dry Bones also makes a cameo in the credits book.

Dry Bones can be unlocked for play in Mario Kart DS by winning every Nitro Cup in 50cc Grand Prix. His personal karts are the Standard DB, the Banisher, and the Dry Bomber. His emblem is the side of his skull. Dry Bones is the staff data used on Donut Plains 1 and has a time of 1:08:027 in the Dry Bomber. He is also the staff data on Banshee Boardwalk and has a time of 2:14:403 in the Dry Bomber. Dry Bones is the lightest character, even more than Peach, Yoshi, Toad, and Shy Guy, all of whom share the light weight class with him.

Dry Bones can be unlocked for play again in Mario Kart Wii, but this time by either winning the 100cc Leaf Cup or by playing 1,050 races. Dry Bones is still a lightweight, so his top speed is low yet his acceleration and off-road are high. Each kart used by Dry Bones is colored gray and black. Dry Bones has a small acceleration and drift bonus, but the mini-turbo is his highest bonus, rivaling Koopa Troopa's, Wario's, and Dry Bowser's.

Though Dry Bones does not appear as a playable character in Mario Kart 8, the species still appears in the game on various courses, including the cavern of Bone-Dry Dunes; here, they serve as hazards and fall apart when driven into. An image of a Dry Bones can be seen on a fabric hanging from the walls of the cave. Several Dry Bones can also be seen spectating in Bowser's Castle and 3DS Neo Bowser City. There is also a stamp of a Dry Bones that one can unlock by beating the staff ghost in Bone-Dry Dunes.
In addition to his roles from the original version, Dry Bones would become playable in Mario Kart 8 Deluxe, where he is in the same lightweight subset as Baby Mario, Baby Luigi, and small Miis. He is also the 200cc staff ghost for Bone-Dry Dunes. Dry Bones' horn sound is the sound effect of when a Dry Bones breaks apart.

Dry Bones appears in Mario Kart Tour as a Normal playable character. He shares his special item, the Triple Green Shells, with Koopa Troopa, Iggy Koopa, Lakitu, and Green Shy Guy. He is also the main subject of a bonus challenge named Smash Small Dry Bones, where players have to squash as many small Dry Bones as possible. He additionally has a golden variant called Dry Bones (Gold) which appears as a High-End character with the Coin Box as his special item.
Dry Bones is one of the few characters in the game not to receive any new favorite tracks beyond his debut, with his only default favorite tracks being GBA Bowser's Castle 1T and 3DS Shy Guy Bazaar T. He shares this distinction with Baby Peach, Baby Rosalina, Shy Guy, Morton and Wendy.

Dry Bones appears as a sidekick in Mario Strikers Charged. Classified as a defensive player, Dry Bones' highlights are its speed and defense, meaning it can react quickly and run fast towards the ball, while its defense is Tackling opponents fiercely to knock them off in a short time. However, like the defensive captains, Dry Bones also has low passing skill and power, kicking the metallic ball immediately when it reaches maximum power.
Its Skillshot is the Shocker. After charging the ball completely, Dry Bones electrifies the ball, making the rival's Goalkeeper or even another competitor unable to move and react briefly, freeing him up for another shot. When evading a potential opponent attack while having the ball, Dry Bones can turn around and disappear, making it almost invincible, capable of passing hazardous obstacles, such as power-ups dropped on the field or dodging the Goalkeeper's moves. However, Dry Bones cannot use its deking capabilities to pass through the electric fence; it is electrocuted, which results in losing control of the ball. The durability and effect of Dry Bones' deke depends on the light the ball is emitting. Therefore, if the light is white, Dry Bones can go further while invisible. Once Dry Bones has performed its evasion in this way, the light of the ball changes back to its lowest power.

As a species, Dry Bones first appeared as members of the audience in both the Wii version and the Nintendo DS version of Mario & Sonic at the Olympic Games, though the Wii version also includes them as referees. In the Wii version of Mario & Sonic at the London 2012 Olympic Games, in London Party mode, Dry Bones also appear as one of the characters that can be spoken to on the map in order to play a minigame. In the Nintendo 3DS version, a badge of Dry Bones can be obtained from the badge machine.

Dry Bones are semi-recurring rivals in the series. In the Wii version of Mario & Sonic at the Olympic Winter Games, three Dry Bones assist Dry Bowser as field players in the Ice Hockey event, where they are competed against in Festival Mode, on the last day. In Team Festival Mode, Dry Bones appear without Dry Bowser in the event Curling, which instead features four of them. In the Wii version of Mario & Sonic at the London 2012 Olympic Games, a Dry Bones appears as the rival for Table Tennis - Singles and Dream Hurdles in London Party, and defeating Dry Bones earns the player a sticker.

A Dry Bones appears in a few of the series' single-player campaigns. In the Nintendo DS version of Mario & Sonic at the Olympic Winter Games, Dry Bones is competed against in Curling in the Adventure Tours mode. In the Nintendo 3DS version of Mario & Sonic at the London 2012 Olympic Games, Dry Bones first appears in Story Mode protecting the Phantasmal Fog alongside Dry Bowser in Foggy Foes, where they intimidate Toad and Omochao before challenging Mario and Luigi to Sailing - 470 (Pair). After their defeat, Mario and Luigi destroy the fog machine and the pair leave before they can be questioned. Dry Bones also appears alongside several other characters for the opening ceremony. In The Life of a Minion, Dry Bones appears alongside Lakitu to help set up a challenge for Bowser with Knuckles and Vector, which they do by having Magikoopa transform them to look like Espio and Charmy. The pair manage to distract Knuckles and Vector for long enough so that Magikoopa can stun them, though Dry Bones almost gives them away as it only speaks with clicking sounds, and after Bowser defeats Knuckles and Vector, Dry Bones and Lakitu stay behind to calm them down. Dry Bones also appears in Mario's Defeat?!, in which it distracts Bowser while Goomba is transformed to look like Mario, being ruled out itself due to the way that it speaks, and later when Goomba is being changed back.
Dry Bones made its first playable appearance in the series with the Nintendo 3DS version of Mario & Sonic at the Rio 2016 Olympic Games, although only in the BMX event.

Dry Bones appears in Super Smash Bros. Brawl and Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS as a trophy. According to a datamine of the former game, Dry Bones would have appeared as an enemy in Adventure Mode: The Subspace Emissary.

Dry Bones are obstacles of Ghoulish Galleon in Mario Sports Mix. They are sometimes hiding in boxes, and stun players that touch them, though the Dry Bones can be used as a shield by players.

Dry Bones is one of the names that can appear on the tournament scoreboard in Mario Golf: World Tour.

Dry Bones' appear as enemies in Puzzle & Dragons: Super Mario Bros. Edition. While they mostly appear in tower and castle courses, they can also appear in the underground, ghost house, and volcanic courses. Dry Bones's main attribute is Fire, while its sub-attribute is Dark. As an enemy, a Dry Bones normally attacks every two turns, and it has the ability to blind the player to make it harder to see the Orbs that are present on the touch screen. As an ally, the Dry Bones's skill can change all Water and Wood Orbs into Fire Orbs, while its Awoken Skill boosts the HP stat for all team members by a small amount. The player can acquire a Dry Bones by transforming a Red Koopa Paratroopa using six Boo Mushrooms.
A mash-up that uses the Dry Bones is also present, known as Dry Bones & Cheep Cheep. Their main attribute is Water, while their sub-attribute is Fire. As an enemy, Dry Bones & Cheep Cheep are able to deliver first strike blows, and they can even perform Frenzied Blows to deliver more damage than normal to the player. As an ally, Dry Bones & Cheep Cheep can change all Orbs into Fire, Water, and Heart Orbs, while their Awoken Skill boosts the HP stat for all team members by a small amount. The player can acquire a Dry Bones & Cheep Cheep by transforming a Red Koopa Troopa & Cheep Cheep with six Boo Mushrooms.

In Skylanders: SuperChargers, Dry Bones acts as an assistant to Hammer Slam Bowser, but only after the player purchased the Molten Bones Soul Gem upgrade. After he activates his Molten Monster form, he can attack one of his Koopa Troopas and turn them into Molten Dry Bones, which tend to do more damage and have more health than regular Koopas. Dry Bones also appears as a vehicle mod for Hammer Slam Bowser's Clown Cruiser titled Dry Bone Basher and Steeled Bone.

In Mario Tennis Aces, Mario faces Dry Bones during the "A Bone to Pick" challenge on the Bask Ruins court. He serves as the guardian of the Temple of Bask, not allowing visitors to enter the temple unless they can prove their tennis skills. Dry Bones also appears in the game's training mode, where he teaches the player all of the basic shots made in a tennis match. According to the game's training mode, Dry Bones is classified as a Tricky type from his emblem in Marina Stadium.
Dry Bones was added as a playable character through the May 2019 online tournament.

Dry Bones appear in Dr. Mario World as obtainable assistants. One is awarded in World 11 when the first area is cleared. In stage mode, they have a chance of increasing capsules by 3 when there are no more capsules left and no further moves could be made. The activation is checked again when it did not activate earlier but the condition is met again, but after the effect is activated it does not activate again in the stage. In versus mode, they have a chance in changing the next capsule into a rainbow capsule and can be activated more than once.

Dry Bones appear in Illumination's The Super Mario Bros. Movie, where Luigi runs from of a horde of them upon arriving in the Dark Lands.
When Bowser announces to his army his plan to marry Princess Peach, one Koopa Troopa asks what he would do if she said no. This leads Bowser to blast him with his fire breath, turning him into a Dry Bones. The same Dry Bones reappears later on at Bowser's wedding. He is last seen during the final fight at Brooklyn attacking Foreman Spike along with a few other minions, before being defeated by Mario and Luigi.

In the Wii U and Nintendo Switch versions of LEGO City Undercover, the player can build a fossil of a Dry Bones in the Special Assignment, The Colossal Fossil Hustle. The player must unlock and select one of Rex Fury's variants over the robber or astronaut disguises. In the second half of the level, the player must switch to Rex and have him pull out the crate and build the pieces of the Dry Bones fossil, which gives out the Caveman Character Token. The 2017 remasters (except the Switch version in later versions) give out the token instead.

In Minecraft, there is a Super Mario Mash-up where Skeletons are reskinned as Dry Bones and Wither Skeletons as Dark Bones. In addition, Strays are reskinned as Dry Bones' blue color scheme as seen in the Mario Baseball games. Dry Bones also appears as a playable skin, though it is smaller than the Skeleton and its variants.

Dry Bones are undead Koopa Troopas with gray bones, dark gray shells, black eyes, yellow pupils, and pale blue shoes and gloves, the latter of which notably are not worn by their living counterparts. A Dry Bones' shell is similarly designed to that of a Koopa Troopa's, but it is gray and features black patterns in between each shell segment. Dry Bones' appearance has changed often, due to receiving changes between games and media, which range from minor changes such as increased or decreased vibrancy in colors, to major alterations such as having longer or shorter limbs, and appearing as a bipedal or quadrupedal creature; however, in the GameCube era, Dry Bones' standard appearance was finalized, as with many entities - in particular, Dry Bones received its standardized design in Mario Superstar Baseball. In Super Mario Bros. 3 and the DIC Entertainment Super Mario cartoons, Dry Bones appears as a quadruped, due to standing on all fours, and never standing upright. The DIC Super Mario cartoons give Dry Bones hollow eyes, shorter limbs, and longer necks. Additionally, the Super Mario Bros. style in Super Mario Maker uses a heavily modified Koopa Troopa sprite, with the lone differences being gray skin, black eyes, and blue pupils. 
Super Mario World is the first game to give Dry Bones an upright stance, which would be used in a multitude of subsequent installments. However, Dry Bones' Super Mario World design comes with exclusive elements not present in other games, such as white pupils, a small set of teeth, and a physically larger stature than the Koopa Troopas. Later games resize Dry Bones so they are the same height and shape as a Koopa Troopa. Mario & Luigi: Superstar Saga once again depicts Dry Bones as a quadrupedal species; in Mario & Luigi: Superstar Saga + Bowser's Minions, the Dry Bones in Beanbean Kingdom retain their quadrupedal stature, though their Mushroom Kingdom relatives present in the Minion's Quest: The Search For Bowser side story are shown in an upright posture, thus suggesting that Dry Bones differ depending on the region. Both Super Mario Galaxy games depict Dry Bones as bipedal creatures who stand and move in hunched postures, a feature that is reused in Super Mario 3D Land and for Parabones in Super Mario 3D World and Super Mario Odyssey. In the Super Smash Bros. series, Dry Bones' trophy has a more realistic appearance than its species' main depiction. In Super Smash Bros. Brawl, Dry Bones' trophy has a more monotone appearance, as well as a darker color scheme and a detailed shell. In Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS / Wii U, its trophy has a more vibrant and cartoonish appearance, as well as much less detailing.
In the first three Paper Mario games, Dry Bones use their Super Mario World design, but with three tufts of hair, a feature that is only present in their Super Mario World artwork. Starting from Paper Mario: Sticker Star, Dry Bones use their design from the New Super Mario Bros. series, though they keep their previous shell design (albeit recolored) and lack of arm bones. Additionally, Paper Mario: Color Splash gives Dry Bones a pronounced paper outline.
In The Super Mario Bros. Movie, Dry Bones have visible neck bones, their eye sockets are more expressive, and their pupils turn red (similar to Super Mario 3D Land) and fiery when angered or hostile.

Dry Bones did not have any voice acting or in-game text in the Family Computer (Nintendo Entertainment System in the West) and Super Nintendo Entertainment System games, both due to technical limitations and Nintendo's habit of having silent characters. Super Mario RPG: Legend of the Seven Stars is the notable exception, which gives them a thought. Starting from the early 2000s, Dry Bones received voice acting, though it comprised of clustered bone "grunts" and "yells" provided by Nintendo sound manager and composer Toru Asakawa, who also does King Boo's voice. In contemporary games, Dry Bones receive text-based dialogue, while some games use "rattle" and "clickety-clack" sounds as speech with the translation in parentheses. Super Mario Party notably has Dry Bones' speech translated; however, unlike other games which do this, Dry Bones pauses some of its sentences with ellipses. As an earlier instance, Paper Mario: The Thousand-Year Door had Dark Bones pause their sentences; however, Dark Bones spoke intelligibly, as opposed to having their speech translated in parenthesis.

Due to being undead, skeletal Koopa Troopas, Dry Bones are naturally immune to lava and all forms of fire. However, this trait is somewhat inconsistent. In the New Super Mario Bros. games, Dry Bones are unharmed by lava, but if its head is submerged in lava, it takes longer for it to reassemble itself; in New Super Mario Bros. U, Dry Bones are completely immune to lava. In the Super Mario RPGs, Dry Bones take extra or fatal damage from fire or explosions.
Dry Bones usually cannot be defeated permanently, since they always reattach their head to its body in a matter of seconds. This results in Dry Bones' defensive qualities in most Super Mario sports games, due to its small size and excellent survivability, while sacrificing a lot of power and offense. In the Mario & Luigi games, defense is Dry Bones' best stat, though Super Mario RPG: Legend Of The Seven Stars and the Paper Mario games take this trait further, with the former game giving Dry Bones infinite health, and the latter games having them respawn a few minutes after a battle. Sometimes, Dry Bones is also portrayed as a technique character. Dry Bones generally attack their foes by throwing bones at them, a trait that first appeared in Super Mario World. Mario Strikers Charged gives Dry Bones bizarre abilities such as teleportation and electrokinesis, which are used in his deke and Skill Shot respectively. In Mario Tennis Aces, the playable Dry Bones has been shown to be able to purposefully crumble istelf, fly its parts into the air, and reassemble midair, doing so during its Special Shot. Puzzles and Dragons: Super Mario Bros. Edition gives Dry Bones associations with fire and darkness.