Desert Hills is the first race course of the Flower Cup in Mario Kart DS. Elements of the track are based on Desert Land from Super Mario Bros. 3. Pokeys roam around the desert and the Angry Sun will drop Fire Snakes on the track. Both of these elements act as obstacles on the course. The course also has sharper turns and more intense slopes than previous tracks in the game, bringing up the difficulty for the Flower Cup.
Desert Hills reappears as a classic course in Mario Kart Wii as the first race track of the Leaf Cup.

The track starts near an oasis with a small lake where one can sink in the water. The first Pokey can be seen in front of the starting line here as well. To the right of the first turn, the track partially surrounds a pyramid made out of Brick Blocks. One of the other Pokeys is on this turn. There is then a field of dunes, with many more Pokeys roaming within it. The course has a few sharp turns at the end of each lap before approaching the finish line. The dark sand portion of the track is an out-of-bounds area, so if the player touches it, Lakitu will bring them back to the track. There are two shortcuts in this course. The first shortcut is taken by going straight across the hairpin turn, instead of going around. In 150cc, this shortcut requires only one mushroom, if the player jumps at the right time. The second is a dash-through behind the pyramid, right before the Pokeys start appearing. Two mushrooms will be required for this.
The Pipes, Angry Sun, and block designs are taken from aspects of Desert Land in Super Mario Bros. 3.
If the player hits the left dark terrain before they touch the water, they will fall through it with no splash animation.
The following sponsors appear in Desert Hills, all of which are trackside banners:

There are two missions that take place on Desert Hills, both of which the player controls Wario:

Desert Hills makes its classic course debut in Mario Kart Wii as the first course of the Leaf Cup. The course received improved graphics, and starting banner was recolored to blue and now displays the classic Mario Kart logo. Few other changes have been made in the this version of this track aside from the visual improvements; Karts now spin out instead of flipping when making contact with Pokeys and the course map has been rotated 180° in contrast to its predecessor.
If players use mushrooms, they can go over many of this course's walls, skipping sections entirely.
December 2009's first tournament required players to take out 10 Pokeys on Desert Hills. The whole track has more Pokeys than before, and players can make use of Item Boxes that either contain a Star or contain Triple Green Shells.