Luigi's Mansion is the fourth and final course of the Mushroom Cup in Mario Kart DS. It is a dark course set inside Luigi's Mansion, as well as the mansion's exterior, where racers drive through the Boo Woods. Similar to Delfino Square, the music for this course is an original composition and is not based on any soundtracks from the game it is based on. 
It is the only Luigi-themed race course in the series that is not a circuit or raceway course. It is also the only race course in the series to share its name with a battle course, namely GCN Luigi's Mansion; in Mario Kart 8 Deluxe, this battle course uses an arrangement of DS Luigi's Mansion's music.
Luigi's Mansion reappears in Mario Kart 7 as the fourth and last course of the Shell Cup, and in Mario Kart Tour, debuting in the 2019 Halloween Tour.

Racers start outside the mansion in a section of the Boo Woods, and they will go through a curvy path to the entrance of the mansion, running along a narrow hall that leads the racers downwards to a room beneath the foyer. Various portraits of portrait ghosts from Luigi's Mansion can be seen hanging on the walls. The racers then go out of the mansion. Outside the mansion is the Boo Woods, which has a graveyard surrounding the mansion. After crossing a stone path tunnel, racers then reach the graveyard, leaving the mansion's grounds. 
Beyond the mansion's grounds is a swamp of mud, resembling a quagmire, infested with sentient trees. When a character runs into one of these trees, instead of spinning out or rolling over, the character instead will just get stuck on the tree as if it were a wall. Finally, racers end up crossing the swamp to cross the checkered line.
Very few rooms from the original Luigi's Mansion game are actually explored in this course; in fact, the only notable rooms are the foyer, hallways, dining room and a hallway that resembles the one in the basement, just before the King Boo fight at the end of the game.

There are two missions that take place on Luigi's Mansion, and the player controls Luigi in both of them.

In the original DS version, on the stairs right at the start of the race, if the player climbs up and starts turning (by holding down A and B), it will cause the game to crash. The reason why this happens is because there is a file in the game data called "no sound" (file number 4). Said sound file belongs to the stairs of Luigi's Mansion and, since there is no file in that place, it causes the game to crash. This was fixed in the Wii U Virtual Console version, and it is impossible to perform in the course's reappearances in Mario Kart 7 and Tour.

Luigi's Mansion makes its classic course debut in Mario Kart 7 as the fourth and final course of the Shell Cup, with various changes. The mansion's foyer has been redesigned to more closely resemble its original appearance. The carpet now continues onto the bottom floor, and the stone tunnel now has cobwebs. In the graveyard, a Glide Ramp has been added around a gravestone, allowing racers to glide over the gate wall leading to the swamp. Additionally, part of the wall is broken as a small shortcut to cross through with a Mushroom. At the first turn in the swamp, racers can take a new outer slope to reach another Glide Ramp. The portraits of various ghosts have all been replaced with various depictions of Boo, that now occasionally shake and pop outward. This behavior was originally going to appear in Mario Kart DS, but was cut before release. This is one of two Luigi courses that appear in the Shell Cup, the other being N64 Luigi Raceway from Mario Kart 64.

Luigi's Mansion reappears in Mario Kart Tour, starting with the 2019 Halloween Tour. The track mainly uses features from its 3DS appearance, with graphic improvements, and the area was given a tint of blue. Similar to Mario Kart 8, the Mario Kart logo uses a modern design instead of its classic design. The moon now has a bluish-white color, and the finish line banner has a new design. This version of Luigi's Mansion can also be seen in the background of GCN Baby Park. 
The course also appears as Luigi's Mansion R (reversed), Luigi's Mansion T (with ramps), and Luigi's Mansion R/T (reversed with ramps). The former two debuted alongside the regular version in the 2019 Halloween Tour, while the latter debuted in the London Tour. In the R variant, there is a glide ramp at the mansion's entrance.

For this course's tour appearances, see List of DS Luigi's Mansion tour appearances in Mario Kart Tour.

Select "show" to reveal the drivers, karts, and gliders for which DS Luigi's Mansion and its variants are always favored or favorite courses. For instances in which additional drivers, karts, and gliders temporarily had this course and its variants as favored or favorite courses, see List of DS Luigi's Mansion tour appearances in Mario Kart Tour.