Shroom Ridge is the fourth and last race course of the Flower Cup in Mario Kart DS. The course takes place on a public road with traffic and runs on a mountain ridge, hence the name. For about half of the course, the right hand side has no railing and is a sheer drop. Shroom Ridge is the first traffic course to have cars moving in opposite directions, as opposed to the same direction as in all previous road tracks. The hills and trees in the background resemble those of Giant Land in the Super Mario All-Stars version of Super Mario Bros. 3. A very brief portion of this course's music is taken from the game's main theme, which is also featured in Figure-8 Circuit and Mario Circuit.
Shroom Ridge reappears in Mario Kart 8 Deluxe – Booster Course Pass as the second course of the Lucky Cat Cup, and in Mario Kart Tour starting with the 2023 Doctor Tour.

The race starts on a part of the road near to the cliff. Players go straight to encounter the first corner that turns to the left. The road becomes slightly wider and the racers leave the ridge going in between two hills. The road makes another abrupt turn to the right crossing the hills and then turns to the left. The road passes through an expansive meadow with trees in the background behind one of the hills of the road that leads the racers uphill in a S turn that ends inside a tunnel traversing a hill bordering on the road. Racers go through the tunnel to make a slight turn to the left. The tunnel ends leading the racers again to the ridge. During the turn, the road tilts slightly downhill and then makes an S turn to the right. Racers must take now another turn to the left and lastly another to the right. The road ends in a straight line towards the finish line to complete the lap. Traffic drives on the left side of the road, as done in real life in various countries such as Japan, India, the United Kingdom, and Australia. In Mirror Mode, however, they take the right side of the road, as done in the Continental Americas or Mainland Europe. 
Vehicles cannot be seen from a far distance. Unlike the previous game, Mario Kart: Double Dash!!, they will disappear from a player's sight if far enough. Some of the trucks contain advertisements for Fruits or for "Fresh Cheep Cheep", though in pre-release versions, the "Fresh Cheep Cheep" advertisements read "Flesh" instead of "Fresh", likely a translation error.

This version of the course has 13 vehicles.

There are two missions that take place on Shroom Ridge:

Shroom Ridge makes its classic course debut in Mario Kart 8 Deluxe as part of the first wave of the Booster Course Pass. It appears as the second course of the Lucky Cat Cup. Excluding courses from Mario Kart Tour, this is the only course in the first wave that had never appeared outside of its debut game before, and is one of two classic courses to make their classic course debuts in the Booster Course Pass, the other being GBA Snow Land. Out of all the courses that debuted in the Booster Course Pass before Mario Kart Tour, Shroom Ridge is the course with the longest period of time between the two appearances, with the course debuting in Tour in the 2023 Doctor Tour almost a year after it appeared in Mario Kart 8 Deluxe.
The course has received many visual improvements. There is now fog over the woodland below, a lake is added in the background, most of the trees before the tunnel have been removed, making this part more open, and the vehicles have been replaced by the ones found in N64 Toad's Turnpike (with the exception of the dash panel ramp truck). The vehicles also now all move in the same direction as players. The signpost over the finish line now has the modern Mario Kart logo. Guardrails have been added in spots along the final stretch of the track, though they do not cover the entire length of the cliffside. Yoshis and Toads also appear as spectators on this course. Additionally, two shortcuts were added. For the first, a glide ramp was added in the large patch of grass before the tunnel, accessible via a Mushroom. In addition, a fan that blows out wind was added over the edge of the S-turn, allowing racers to skip it with a Mushroom. The minimap was turned around 60 degrees counterclockwise compared to the equivalent in Mario Kart DS; this course is one of three in the Booster Course Pass to not have its minimap rotated so that drivers start facing straight up on it, the other two being Wii DK Summit and DS Mario Circuit from Wave 4. Shroom Ridge is also one of two tracks in the game to not have Double Item Boxes, the other being GCN Baby Park. 
On the American official webpage for the Booster Course Pass, Shroom Ridge was erroneously listed as a 3DS course rather than a DS course. This was later corrected. Additionally, the car in the course icon is driving backwards, making this the second course icon with this oddity, after GCN Mushroom Bridge in Mario Kart DS. It is also driving in the middle of the road. Another error is found on the Nintendo Switch's newsfeed in the United Kingdom, where an article describes the course as having two-way traffic. Lastly, all footage of Shroom Ridge used in trailers and other media displays a different set of traffic than is used in-game, suggesting that the traffic was changed very late in development; the reason for its change is unknown.
As with all other courses from Wave 1, this course's icon and lighting were adjusted slightly in the 2.1.0 update.

This version of the course has 15 vehicles.

All three cargo trucks use a Propeller Toad Transport design while cars can randomly appear as red cars, black cars, or as Green Shell Taxis.

Shroom Ridge reappears in Mario Kart Tour starting from the 2023 Doctor Tour. While it debuted first in Mario Kart 8 Deluxe, its course renders date back to June 2021, indicating it was made for Mario Kart Tour first. Despite this, there are several differences between it and its Mario Kart 8 Deluxe iteration. The environment is overall less hazy than in Mario Kart 8 Deluxe, with the skybox featuring cartoony clouds, and the fog along the main cliff no longer being present. The walls now have a white and gray pattern, instead of being entirely gray. Both shortcuts added in Mario Kart 8 Deluxe have been altered - the Glide Ramp design has been changed into a wooden ramp and was moved further ahead and closer to the main road with an arrangement of Coins in front of it as well. The fan blowing air has also been replaced with a second Glide Ramp. Item Boxes and Coins are now in some fixed positions, in addition to a handful that still move with the track. The vehicles are the same as the ones that appear in Berlin Byways 3, including the truck with a Piranha Plant in its truckbed. This also makes Shroom Ridge the first classic course in Mario Kart Tour to feature traffic. Like the original version of the course, the vehicles move in different directions based on the side of the road they are on. The minimap also matches the one from the DS version of the course. It is the only DS course to use its original arrangement.
The course also appears as Shroom Ridge R (reversed), Shroom Ridge T (with ramps), and Shroom Ridge R/T (reversed with ramps). In the R variant, there are two glide ramps on the main road which lower to the ground whenever vehicles approach them. In the T and R/T variants, moving traffic is removed. In the T variant, there are instead many Wigglers roaming the course as obstacles. In the R/T variant, racers drive across several mushroom platforms and mushroom trampolines, including a blue one.
The Mario Kart Tour rendition of DS Shroom Ridge is visible in an official bannerMedia:MK8DBoosterCoursePassArtwork.jpg for the Mario Kart 8 Deluxe – Booster Course Pass, while its R/T variant is shown in an unused bannerMedia:MK8DX BCP Leak.jpg present in Mario Kart 8 Deluxe's files as of version 2.0.0; both instances predate any official announcement of DS Shroom Ridge being added to Mario Kart Tour.

This version of the course, in its default variant, has 12 vehicles.

For this course's tour appearances, see List of DS Shroom Ridge tour appearances in Mario Kart Tour.

Select "show" to reveal the drivers, karts, and gliders for which DS Shroom Ridge and its variants are always favored or favorite courses. For instances in which additional drivers, karts, and gliders temporarily had this course and its variants as favored or favorite courses, see List of DS Shroom Ridge tour appearances in Mario Kart Tour.