Twilight House is a battle course debuting in Mario Kart DS  which takes place in and around a house located at the center of a forest during twilight, floating above a dark void. It also made appearances as a retro battle course in Mario Kart Wii and in Mario Kart Tour.

Twilight House is a battle course modeled after a 3x3 square grid in layout, featuring eight wide rooms surrounded by a narrow balcony in addition to an inaccessible center. The center, eastern and southeastern rooms make up the actual house, with a connected roof and three Item Boxes inside. A good majority of these rooms are set outdoors, fenced off by brick walls with different openings leading to the balcony or to other rooms. These rooms also contain item boxes with the exception of the northeastern room. Finally, the northwestern room features a spacious, castle-like structure with entrances fitted with traditional portcullises.
As mentioned before, the entire course is surrounded by a narrow balcony, which has the risk of making players fall into the void should they not be careful. Its four corners feature small square-shaped areas, each of which features an Item Box. Notably, a dark Shine Sprite motif can be seen throughout this track, both on the archway designs and as emblems decorating some of the track's walls; the latter is much more prominent on the northwestern room which features large, dark Shine Sprite emblems above its entrances.
In Shine Runners, there are eight possible spawning locations for the Shine Sprites. Four of these are located in rooms on each corner of the battle course, while four more are located on the center portions of each side of the narrow balcony.

There is one mission that takes place on Twilight House:

Twilight House returns in Mario Kart Wii with graphical changes, including ambient lighting, better shading, and remixed music. The biggest change is that a thick forest filled with trees (similar to Moonview Highway) was added below the course where players can fall into, with tall pillars now holding the entire course up.

July 2008's second tournament required players to complete a GP race on a version of Twilight House that has been turned into a race track: Players must drive five laps clockwise through the eight rooms (excluding the centermost room), with barriers blocking off the outer balcony edges. Controls were restricted to Wii Wheel users only. The tournament was later repeated as the second tournament of July 2010.

Twilight House reappears in Mario Kart Tour debuting in the 2022 Halloween Tour. The course has received a notable graphical overhaul - the rooftops are now a shade of maroon, the castle design has been made present throughout most of the track, and the dark Shine Sprite motif has been removed (with a more generic star design on the castle itself). Several of the rooftops have been removed to accommodate the battle mechanic for eliminated players in Mario Kart Tour, allowing them to throw items at the remaining players. A Rocky Wrench now appears in the course's northern, eastern, southern, and western rooms, replacing the Item Boxes there, while the north-western room has cyan lighting instead of orange like the rest of the rooms. A wall surrounding the entire course has also been added, allowing projectiles to rebound off of the course's boundaries, and the four corner platforms have been removed. Like other battle courses in this game, Twilight House uses SNES Battle Course 1's music from Mario Kart 8 Deluxe instead of its Mario Kart Wii arrangement. However, its original song is still present in the files of Mario Kart Tour.
Using a Super Leaf, it was possible to fly onto the roof of the house bouncing off of a Rocky Wrench. This bug was fixed in the 2022 Autumn Tour.

For this course's tour appearances, see List of DS Twilight House tour appearances in Mario Kart Tour.

The following are the drivers, karts, and gliders for which  is always a favored or favorite course. For instances in which additional drivers, karts, and gliders temporarily had this course as a favored or favorite course, see List of  tour appearances in Mario Kart Tour.