Waluigi Pinball is the third race course of the Flower Cup in Mario Kart DS. As its name implies, this course takes place in a giant pinball machine themed after Waluigi and contains many sharp turns and curves. It shares its music with Wario Stadium.
Waluigi Pinball reappears in  Mario Kart 7 as the fourth and last course of the Banana Cup, in Mario Kart Tour starting with the 2019 Halloween Tour, and in Mario Kart 8 Deluxe – Booster Course Pass as the fourth and last course of the Turnip Cup.

Soon after the countdown ends and the race begins, the kart drivers are launched into the pinball machine. After that, the racers start a descent down the machine, encountering numerous pinballs on the way. Colliding with one of these causes drivers to be knocked backwards. Additionally, a racer loses any items they may be carrying. While the racers are in the pinball launcher, they are immune to all items, including Lightning. Later on the track, inside the pinball table, there are flippers and bumpers. Bumpers push and speed up drivers, but flippers, when moving, can cause them to get electrocuted and spin out. This is the longest Nitro course in the game, despite being in the Flower Cup.
This course is the only non-circuit course to share its Grand Prix introduction fanfare with Figure-8 Circuit, Mario Circuit and GCN Luigi Circuit.
The course has several unique sound effects that evoke pinball machine scoring noises. Most of these sounds are retained in its retro course appearances in future games:

There are two missions that take place on Waluigi Pinball:

Both missions take place on a version of the pinball table that has extra bumpers.

Waluigi Pinball makes its classic course debut in Mario Kart 7 as the fourth and final course of the Banana Cup, despite Waluigi not being playable in the game. The layout remained the same, but with enhanced graphics and the Dash Panels recolored to orange. The flashing starting banner now displays the classic Mario Kart logo.
The launch after the starting line now encompasses a Glide Ramp, although like Wii Maple Treeway and DS Airship Fortress, players cannot aim their flight. Players are also no longer immune to items while in the launcher, and being hit by anything (or stowing their glider) results in having to be rescued by Lakitu. Additionally, the glider section is now shown on the minimap. The jumps after turn 1 (with the Waluigi banner repositioned slightly to accommodate it) and after turn 6 can be used to perform a trick and gain a boost. An extra Dash Panel is added in the small drop near the circular turn that comes after the 2nd jump.
The pinballs, bumpers, and flippers on the table behave the same way as in the DS version of the course, with the exception of the bumpers in the center of the lower part of the table rotating clockwise instead of counterclockwise. While playing local or online multiplayer, only one pinball traverses the main table as opposed to two.
The staff ghost for this track is Wario.

Waluigi Pinball returns in Mario Kart Tour beginning in the 2019 Halloween Tour. As of the 2023 Anniversary Tour, the course has appeared in thirty separate tours, the most out of any course in the game (not including courses with multiple routes). It featured a major visual upgrade. The image of Waluigi is now illustrated 2D, and his head now rotates from left to right and is surrounded by several brightly-lit buildings and large stacks of coins, the slots below them now have a Las Vegas theme to them, the bumpers have a brighter color, the flashing starting banner with the Mario Kart logo now uses the modern one albeit without the flashing red lights, and there is a new sign after the pinball launcher with Waluigi's art from Mario Party: Star Rush, the track name, a metal ball, two flippers, and scrolling text below that reads "Waluigi No. 1", while the Waluigi banner at the start of the pinball machine was moved to the entrance of the pinball table. The rotating bumpers now move far more slowly. Due to the second lap being the final lap, the jingle that plays when entering the second lap in previous appearances is no longer present.
The course also appears as Waluigi Pinball R (reversed), Waluigi Pinball T (with ramps), and Waluigi Pinball R/T (reversed with ramps). The former two debuted alongside the regular version in the 2019 Halloween Tour, while the latter debuted in the Valentine's Tour. In the T variant, there are many ramps on the pinball table that raise and lower as time passes. In the R/T variant, the two metal balls on the lower section take a different path at the start of the race.
The course icon for the R/T variant has an error within it. It features a trick ramp next to the red bridge despite not appearing in-game.

For this course's tour appearances, see List of DS Waluigi Pinball tour appearances in Mario Kart Tour.

Select "show" to reveal the drivers, karts, and gliders for which DS Waluigi Pinball and its variants are always favored or favorite courses. For instances in which additional drivers, karts, and gliders temporarily had this course and its variants as favored or favorite courses, see List of DS Waluigi Pinball tour appearances in Mario Kart Tour.

Waluigi Pinball makes its home console debut in Mario Kart 8 Deluxe as part of Wave 2 of the Booster Course Pass, appearing as the fourth and final course of the Turnip Cup. The course uses its design from Mario Kart Tour, albeit with enhanced graphical updates. The rotating bumpers have been reverted to a faster speed, retaining their clockwise rotation first changed in Mario Kart 7.  They can also now be crashed into when using a Star, flying into the air as a result. Several groups of spectators consisting of Shy Guys, Toads, Yoshis, and Koopa Paratroopas have now been added in various locations outside of the track's playable area, such as the sides of the chute behind the flippers and around the stretch of road after the gap jump leading to the pinball table, and a helicopter now appears above the large image of Waluigi at the end of the course. The flippers now give off an electric particle effect after activating. 
The sounds that play when changing positions are no longer present, and the sound effect that plays when the player exits the pinball table is no longer played; however, the latter can be heard twice in the course's introduction cinematic. Like its debut game, the course shares its music with DS Wario Stadium, making these courses the only courses to share the same music in Mario Kart 8 Deluxe, and one of the only classic courses in the series to share music with another retro course in the same game excluding Mario Kart Tour (the other four being GBA Peach Circuit with GBA Luigi Circuit and GCN Yoshi Circuit with GCN Luigi Circuit in Mario Kart DS). Waluigi Pinball was one of two courses whose music was used for the reveal trailer for Wave 2 of the Booster Course Pass, alongside Sky-High Sundae, not including Mario Kart 8's Rainbow Road, whose music was also used in Wave 1's promotional material. Waluigi Pinball is the only DS course in the Booster Course Pass to not be the second course in its respective cup, as DS Shroom Ridge, DS Peach Gardens, and DS Mario Circuit are the second courses of the Lucky Cat Cup, Moon Cup, and Boomerang Cup respectively.
The course was once erroneously referred to as "Waluigi's Pinball" on the Nintendo Switch's news feed.

Waluigi Pinball makes a cameo appearance in the 2006 release of the Nintendo Monopoly board game. It can be seen in one of the screenshots making up the montage of images from various Nintendo games.
Additionally, Waluigi's Showdown minigame in Super Mario Party Jamboree, Waluigi's Pinball Arcade, is based on Waluigi Pinball, with the aesthetic being similar to the Tour and 8 Deluxe versions of the course.

Waluigi Pinball shares its music with Wario Stadium. An arrangement of the music is also featured in Super Smash Bros. Brawl and Super Smash Bros. for Wii U on the Mario Circuit stage, and in Super Smash Bros. Ultimate for any Mario Kart-series stage, arranged in an enhanced electronic rock style by Kentaro Ishizaka. The arrangement also incorporates Wario's victory theme from the same games.