Wario Stadium is the first course of the Special Cup in Mario Kart DS. The track has its own introduction music in the single-player Grand Prix. The course contains numerous mud puddles, Dash Panels, jumps, twists, Fire Chains and Bars. This version is more reminiscent of GCN Waluigi Stadium from Mario Kart: Double Dash!! than its N64 counterpart and shares the same music with Waluigi Pinball. 
This course's unique introduction music may be a reference to the baseball organ, based on its sounds and due to the fact that the course is a stadium.
Wario Stadium reappears as a classic course in Mario Kart 8 and Mario Kart 8 Deluxe as the first race of the Leaf Cup, making it the first Wario-themed classic course.

The course starts with a 180° left turn, followed by a right turn and a left U-turn. The player then climbs up a ramp and uses a Dash Panel to jump over the end of the course (a mesh platform prevents racers from falling down). The player turns left into a mud pit that slows racers down. Dash Panels on islands in the mud serve as a path to navigate the mud. Then, racers climb up a pair of ramps with spinning Fire Chains. The path narrows and passes a mud pit with Fire Bars. Next, racers climb a giant ramp before passing several small humps. Racers take one more U-turn before jumping off another ramp to the finish line.
With skillful use of lightweight characters combined with high-handling karts, the ramps with Dash Panels can be used carefully to avoid a Spiny Shell by boosting with precise timing when jumping over them.

Mission 7-5 takes place on Wario Stadium using Wario. In this mission, the player must collect 20 coins in 55 seconds.

Wario Stadium makes its classic course debut in Mario Kart 8 and Mario Kart 8 Deluxe as the first race of the Leaf Cup. This version of the course has largely the same layout, though some changes have been made in the Fire Bars section. Rather than driving through a mud path, racers now drive on a raised platform that acts as an anti-gravity section (similar to Mario Kart Stadium and GBA Mario Circuit). Soon after, racers encounter a new underwater section instead of continuing on the dirt path from the previous version, which then leads to a Glide Ramp instead of a Dash Panel. This part of the track, compared to the original section, has been modified to just a simple U-turn. Other major changes include the addition of a statue of Wario and the time of day, which has been changed from night to day. All the Dash Panels on the ramps are also smaller compared to their original appearance, but are more powerful, and racers can perform tricks when driving over one. In addition, the crowd can be heard cheering if the player performs a trick in both the Fire Chain jump and at the end of the anti-gravity section. Like its first appearance, it shares its music with DS Waluigi Pinball, making these courses the only courses to share the same music in Mario Kart 8 Deluxe, and one of the only retro courses in the series to share music with another retro course in the same game excluding Mario Kart Tour (the other four being GBA Peach Circuit with GBA Luigi Circuit and GCN Yoshi Circuit with GCN Luigi Circuit in Mario Kart DS).
The starting banner (which now has the modern Mario Kart logo) can be interacted with by playable characters gliding out of the underwater section, causing it to swing. The course is one of five with this feature; the other four courses are Mario Circuit, 3DS Neo Bowser City, Tour Tokyo Blur and 3DS Rock Rock Mountain.

The inner loop is the same in Mario Kart DS and Mario Kart 8. Turn 4 after the bridge is sharper in 8, leading into the boost mold section.
Turn 5 leads left to the first jump section. Though they have same hills in DS and 8, the DS section is diagonally aligned.
In the DS layout, the hills are followed by turn 6 slightly right, turns 7-9 with mud traps, turn 10 leading into the second jump section, and turn 11 leading right into a bumpy section.
The 8 layout skips turns 6 through 11, instead banking into an inside-leaning vertical hover section for its turn 6, leading into the sharp turns 7 and 8, followed by a turn 9 left turn into a jump section.
The final sharp turn, which is turn 12 in DS and turn 10 in 8, lead back onto the main stretch.