Yoshi Falls is the second course of the Mushroom Cup in Mario Kart DS. It is located in a crater-like valley, circling a lake with three waterfalls connected to the body of water, crossing the track. A large Yoshi Egg is found in the center of the lake. Numerous Dash Panels are located at some places along the course. Bridges do provide a safer way to pass, as opposed to going through the waterfall rapids, which is a risk due to being able to be pushed off the edge. It is one of the shortest courses in Mario Kart DS, being the shortest new course in the game.
Yoshi Falls reappears as a classic course in Mario Kart Wii as the second course of the Shell Cup. It is the only Yoshi course in the series to not appear in Mario Kart Tour, and it remained the last Yoshi course to appear as a new course in a Mario Kart game for eighteen years until the introduction of Yoshi's Island in the Mario Kart 8 Deluxe – Booster Course Pass and Mario Kart Tour.

The course's layout is similar to Luigi Circuit from Mario Kart Wii. Racers start far from the edge of the cliff and are protected by a wooden bar. As they go forward, they can take either the upper half of the track or the lower half, taking advantage of the faster path but also being vulnerable to falling off or being pushed off by the rapids crossing the path. The upper level, however, has a bridge to cross safely over the waters, and handy Item Boxes. Racers then must take the second bridge, also containing Item Boxes. The stream of the second rapid down the bridge is more powerful, so it is more likely that racers will fall off crossing it. Certain items, such as a Star, mitigate the effects of the rapids. Briefly, past the second bridge, characters can run over Dash Panels in the upper half, while the lower half has none of these speed boosters. Some Item Boxes appear down the third bridge, unlike the upper stretch, which does not have any. Once racers have passed the third bridge, there are more Dash Panels on the upper half of the course appearing before the track ends at the finish line.

Two missions that take place on Yoshi Falls: Mission 1-3, where Yoshi has to hit 10 Item Boxes within 45 seconds, and Mission 3-4, where Peach has to beat Yoshi in a single-lap race.

Yoshi Falls returns in Mario Kart Wii as the second course of the Shell Cup. The layout mostly remains identical compared to its original counterpart. Aside from updated graphics, the most noticeable change in the course is the addition of a ramp on the third bridge, which the player can perform a trick on.
July 2009's second tournament in Mario Kart Wii required players to complete a GP race on a version of Yoshi Falls with a modified layout: Some mushroom trampolines from Mushroom Gorge were added on the side of the track, and sets of barriers direct racers onto them instead of the main route. The control scheme was restricted to Wii Wheel users.

Sponsors on Yoshi Falls include the following: