Dunk Hammer is a Bros. Action that appears in Mario & Luigi: Superstar Saga and its 3DS remake, Mario & Luigi: Superstar Saga + Bowser's Minions. In the former, this move is known as Luigi Dunk. It is taught by Cork and Cask in Chateau de Chucklehuck along with the Mini-Mario technique. Both of them are techniques passed down to Cork and Cask from generations past. When Mario whacks Luigi from behind with his hammer, Luigi will be buried into the ground, unless the two are above certain surfaces such as metallic plating. Luigi's hat sticks out from the ground. While in this state Luigi can move underground, allowing him to pass under obstacles and jump into barrels from beneath, though he cannot pass through some surfaces.
If Luigi passes through an obstacle in which Mario cannot follow, like a metal gate, he will be separated from him. Luigi can also be used to find beans hidden in underground spots marked with an "X", and also Bean Fruit and Beanstones. Once Luigi has emerged from the ground, he cannot go underground again without Mario's help. If this is used over a Surfing Spot, Luigi will be turned into a surfboard that Mario can use to surf across Oho Ocean to reach Joke's End later in the game. The in-battle equivalent to this move is Chopper Bros., and it is also used in the advanced version of the Thunder Bros. Bros. Attack. If Mario surfaces Luigi under certain enemies and pop out of the ground in the overworld, the enemy will be launched into the air and fall back down stunned, which allows the bros to either escape or First Strike them more easily.

In Mario & Luigi: Dream Team, Mario and Luigi switch roles and the move is a Bros. Move named Mole Mario. Mole Mario is taught by two Shelltops working for Britta in Dozing Sands along with Mini-Mario, which is used instead of Mole Mario if the move is attempted above hard surfaces. One of the Shelltops mentions they saw Mole Mario in a movie.
There are some tweaks compared to Dunk Hammer. Mario is fully underground, so his position is indicated by a pointing glove. Mole Mario cannot be used if Luigi is standing in the same space as Mario, or if Mario is standing over a ledge. The hammer swing has to hit Mario; it is possible for a wall or object to block the swing. Mario is not allowed to dig out from below enemies. With Mario underground, Luigi can still jump or use his Hammer, enabling him to use First Strikes with the Hammer. Mole Mario is additionally used to flip over panels in the overworld by having Mario pop up from below them, while no Bean Fruit, Beanstones, barrels or Surfing Spots appear. The hard surfaces that are used for Mini-Mario additionally serve as boundaries for the underground Mario.
Mole Mario is the focus of the Mole Hunt minigame, where it is used to dig up hermit crabs to score points.