The Egg 1 is a kart in the Mario Kart series. It is a bumper-car in the shape of a Yoshi Egg with small wheels, dual exhaust pipes, and a small compartment for the driver. The lower front part of the kart suggests that it may be built using the chassis of the classic Pipe Frame karts featured in earlier Mario Kart games. The emblem is located on the front of the kart. Its name is a pun on F-1 (Formula One).

In Mario Kart DS, the Egg 1 appears as Yoshi's default signature kart, with average speed and high acceleration and handling, but low weight, drift, and items. It is tied with the Shooting Star for the lightest kart in the game.
Much like the Dry Bomber, the kart is notable for its powerful Mini-Turbo boost. A hidden in-game statistic shows that the Egg 1 has the second-highest Mini-Turbo stat in the game, only behind the Dry Bomber. Combined with its low drift stat, the Egg 1 is often utilized by players to pull off the "snaking" technique.
The kart is unlocked for Daisy and R.O.B. to use when the player wins a gold trophy in all Nitro or Retro cups on 150cc, and becomes available for everyone else when a gold trophy is obtained in every cup on 150cc Mirror Mode.

The Egg 1 reappears as a retro kart body in Mario Kart 7. It is one of the unlockable kart bodies in the game, and it offers an acceleration boost, at the expense of speed and weight. In fact, the Egg 1 is tied with the Birthday Girl and Bumble V for having the highest acceleration of all kart bodies.
In terms of its hidden stats, the Egg 1 offers one of the fastest sea speed stats (tied with the Tiny Tug) in the game, making it pretty effective for underwater racing.
Equipping the Egg 1 with Roller tires makes it resemble the original Mario Kart DS version.
CPUs Peach and Wario have a preference for using this body.

The Egg 1 appears in Mario Kart Tour, where it is classified as a Super kart. In this game, it uses the Birthday Girl's tires to match its appearance in Mario Kart DS. The kart increases the duration of Mini-Turbo speed boosts and the number of points earned for performing Mini-Turbos.
Five variants of this kart appear in this game: a gold variant called the Gold Egg, a variant with a dreamlike aesthetic called the Dreamy Egg, a coconut-themed variant called the Coconut 1, a pineapple-themed variant called the Pineapple 1, a Huffin Puffin-themed one called Huffin Puffin Egg, and a Wiggler-themed one called Wiggler Egg. All six variants have the High-End classification.

The Mario Kart 7 incarnation of the Egg 1 appears as a trophy in Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS, driven by Yoshi.