Espio the Chameleon is a character from the Sonic the Hedgehog franchise, and a member of the Chaotix Detective Agency, along with Vector, and Charmy. In the Super Mario franchise, Espio appears in many installments of the Mario & Sonic series.

Espio appears as a referee for several Events in the Wii version of Mario & Sonic at the Olympic Games. He appears during the opening refereeing High Jump and Archery. In the Nintendo DS version, he appears as a referee exclusively for Sonic characters in 10m Platform, Trampoline and Vault.

Espio returns as a referee in the Wii version of Mario & Sonic at the Olympic Winter Games, and a Mii costume based on Espio also appears. In the Nintendo DS version, Espio appears in the Adventure tours mode, where he must be spoken to with Vector to find out the number of Whitestones remaining in Sparkleton, Cubyrinth and Blizland.

Espio reappears as a referee in the Wii version of Mario & Sonic at the London 2012 Olympic Games. He also appears as a character that can be spoken to in London Party mode in order to play minigames and earn stickers. The Mii costume based on him also returns and can be unlocked by winning 12 events, after which he will send the player the outfit in the mail. Espio will also send the player other pieces of mail.
In the Nintendo 3DS version, Espio appears as the referee for Boxing, Taekwondo and Wrestling - Freestyle, as well as making an appearance in the Story Mode. In the mode, Espio first appears with Charmy to tell Mario, Luigi, Toad, Sonic and Tails that Bowser and Dr. Eggman's minions have been causing trouble around London, and he splits off with Tails and heads to ExCeL London, where they find Omega rampaging. Donkey Kong defeats Omega, causing a chip to fall out of him, and after working out that Dr. Eggman was using the chip to control Omega, Tails and Espio head back to the Main Stadium with Omega. Espio stays at the Main Stadium, and later helps clear the Phantasmal Fog from it, as well as calling the Heroes during their confrontation with Bowser and Dr. Eggman to offer support and appearing at the opening ceremony. Additionally, while Espio himself does not appear in the bonus episodes, a Dry Bones is transformed by Magikoopa to look like him in The Life of a Minion. A badge of Espio can also be obtained from the badge machine.

In Mario & Sonic at the Sochi 2014 Olympic Winter Games, Espio appears as a referee and the cameraman for record-breaking interviews with the athletes. He also occasionally appears as one of the characters that the player needs to look for during certain Action & Answer Tour events, and the Mii costume based on him also returns.

Espio appears as a playable character in both the Wii U version and Nintendo 3DS version of Mario & Sonic at the Rio 2016 Olympic Games. In the Wii U version, Espio is only playable in Triple Jump, and must be unlocked by beating him in a tournament match. The Espio Mii costume also returns, but now must be collected in two separate parts, each with their own stat changes. In the Nintendo 3DS version, Espio is playable from the start of the game in Long Jump and Long Jump Plus, and appears as a rival in the Road to Rio mode on day 4 of Sonic's story.

Espio returns as the guest character for Triple Jump in Mario & Sonic at the Olympic Games Tokyo 2020, and is unlocked by defeating him with Amy during chapter 9 of the game's story mode.

He appears in Super Smash Bros. Brawl as a collectible sticker, as well as a trophy in Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS. In Super Smash Bros. Ultimate, Espio, Vector, and Charmy Bee appear together as a spirit.