Exor is a high-ranking member of the Smithy Gang and the secondary antagonist and boss in Super Mario RPG: Legend of the Seven Stars and its Nintendo Switch remake. Exor is a giant anthropomorphic sword that is composed of four parts: the Left Eye, the Right Eye, the Mouth (which is inexplicably translated as "Neosquid" in the original), and the skull-shaped pommel (named Exor) that controls the entire body. Exor's name is a reference to Excalibur, the sword from the story of King Arthur. Exor is used as a gateway between Mario's world, which is home of the Mushroom Kingdom, and the Weapon World, where Smithy's Factory is located.
The image of Exor impaling Bowser's Keep is one of the primary images used to represent the game. Aside from the world map and Vista Hill, it is on the title screen, on the front of the American box art, and on the back of the Japanese box art.

Exor, on its descent to Bowser's Keep, shatters the Star Road, breaking off seven Star Pieces, thus eliminating the power of wishes from the world. Exor crashes into Bowser's Keep, sending Mario, Bowser, and Princess Peach (who were battling in the castle) flying to other regions of the world. The keep is occupied by the Smithy Gang and is used as Smithy's base of operations in Mario's world.
Mario returns to Bowser's Keep in an attempt to find Peach, only to meet Exor. Exor claims the keep in the name of the Smithy Gang and destroys the bridge linking Bowser's Keep to the rest of the world, requiring Mario to find another way in.
Eventually, after collecting six Star Pieces, Mario returns to Bowser's Keep via a bus driver from Nimbus Land. After defeating Boomer, Mario and his allies are brought to the roof of the castle, where they engage Exor. In battle, the sword's pommel (actually called Exor) must be defeated to win, but it cannot be damaged until at least one eye has been disabled. In a couple of turns, the eye enables itself again, protecting the pommel completely once again. Following its defeat, Exor inhales Mario and his allies, transporting them to Smithy's world.
After Smithy is defeated, Exor disintegrates.

私、しりょく０、３です。　オマケにらんしです。(My eyesight is 0.3. On top of that, I have astigmatism.)