Experience Points (usually just referred to as Experience, or abbreviated as Exp., EXP, or XP) are units of measurement used in role-playing video games to quantify the progression of a playable character through the game. The RPGs of the Super Mario franchise generally award these points for defeating opponents in battle; RPGs of other franchises may also award them for completing quests or overcoming obstacles. When a sufficient number of Experience Points is obtained, the character levels up, earning increases to statistics such as their health, attack power, or special-moves capacities. As characters gain levels, the amount of Experience Points needed to reach levels increases, making it more difficult to level up. In general, enemies encountered at the beginning of a game drop less Experience Points than those found later on. Bosses and rarely-encountered enemies can drop a significant amount of Experience Points when defeated. When a character reaches their maximum level, Experience Points do nothing for them, and whatever Experience Points collected after that are not distributed to other characters.

In Super Mario RPG: Legend of the Seven Stars and its remake, Experience Points earned in a battle are divided up between the active party members (halved if there are two, in thirds for three), and are displayed as such on the victory results screen: if the player's party earns 30 Experience Points from a battle, "10 Exp." is displayed. Characters can also receive Experience Points from battles, even if they did not participate in them; they would earn the same amount as those in the player's current party. The player can purchase the Exp. Booster Accessory to double the amount of Experience Points only for the party member wearing it. In the original game, if the player gets a Game Over in battle, the player is sent back to their last Save Point while still retaining any new levels, Experience Points, Coins, and items gained. The player also has a chance to double their Experience Points earned at the end of a battle from the "Wheeere's Yoshi?!" minigame if they successfully get the Baby Yoshi from one of the three eggs shuffled around.
A party member can collect a maximum of 9,999 Experience Points, bringing them to the maximum level of 30. Experience Points are still divided up regardless of how many party members have already reached this level.
For a listing of how many Experience Points are needed to advance levels for each character, see: Super Mario RPG: Legend of the Seven Stars level up progressions.
In the remake, the player may randomly encounter "special enemies" in battle that yield twice as much Exp. upon defeat. When the game's difficulty is set to Breezy Mode, the player's party earns 20% more Exp. from enemies and bosses.

In Paper Mario and Paper Mario: The Thousand-Year Door, Experience Points are called "Star Points", but their purpose is unchanged.
In Super Paper Mario, Points serve as EXP, and is shared among all playable characters.
In Paper Mario: Color Splash, Hammer Scraps serve as EXP for increasing paint supply.
In Paper Mario: The Origami King, EXP is given through the process of fishing to increase the size of Cheep Cheeps and Bloopers at fishing spots.

In the Mario & Luigi series, the total Experience Points earned in a battle is applied to all involved characters. For example, if a battle is worth 80 experience points, then Mario earns 80 experience points and Luigi earns 80 experience points. For the most part, this means all characters will level up at around the same time. Experience points are only earned at the end of the battle, and are not granted if the player flees. If a character is KO'd when a battle is over, they do not earn any Experience Points at all. If they are revived before the battle concludes, then they do not receive any of the Experience Points for enemies defeated before they were KO'd.
In Mario & Luigi: Bowser's Inside Story and Mario & Luigi: Bowser's Inside Story + Bowser Jr.'s Journey, when the Mario Bros. defeat enemies inside Bowser's body that Bowser inhaled, the Mario Bros. only earn Experience Points for the enemies they defeat, while Bowser earns Experience Points for those enemies and the enemies he defeats himself. In Mario & Luigi: Bowser's Inside Story + Bowser Jr.'s Journey, Giant Battles do not grant experience points, matching the prior release of Mario & Luigi: Dream Team
In Mario & Luigi: Dream Team, while Dreamy Luigi does not participate in battles in the Dream World directly, Luigi still earns experience points. Giant Battles and battles in the Battle Ring do not grant experience points. Gold Beanies grant a large number of experience points. Certain Rank-Up Bonuses directly affect the experience points the brothers gain, with Quick Level increasing the experience points gained from enemies by 20%, and the Shroom EXP enabling the characters to gain experience points from using Mushrooms.
In Mario & Luigi: Paper Jam, papercraft battles do not reward experience points. Shroom EXP is renamed Mushroom EXP, and Quick Level is not present.

In Puzzle & Dragons: Super Mario Bros. Edition, XP earned in battles are divided up between the teammates on the player's active team: the less teammates the player has on their team, the more XP each teammate earns. If the XP divided between the teammates ends at a decimal point, the value is rounded up. As with Super Mario RPG: Legend of the Seven Stars, XP is divided up between all members of the player's team regardless of how many have already reached their maximum levels.
The player can also provide XP for their teammates by depowering other teammates in the player's Ally Box for their XP in the Power Up spot at Toad Houses. Depowering teammates removes them from the player's Ally Box and up to five allies can be depowered at a time. A teammate can provide more XP for another the higher their level is, with their base XP value multiplied by their current level. Teammates getting an ally's XP receive 50% more if their main attributes match. Coin Coffers and King Coin Coffers provide a significant power up for teammates using this method. Occasionally, a teammate may earn twice as much XP from another teammate than normal.

In Mario Kart Tour, drivers, karts and gliders will earn Experience Points after each race. The number of points depends on the engine class and the place at which the player finishes. First place in 150cc and 200cc will give 10 experience points, and each place lower than first and each engine class below 150cc will grant one less point. When a driver, kart or glider's Experience Point gauge is fully filled, the amount of base points of this driver, kart or glider will increase. If the driver, kart or glider already has the maximum amount of base points, however, it will not earn Experience Points anymore. Each day, it is possible to obtain up to 150 experience points for drivers, for karts and for gliders by racing. (However, this is a soft limit, as the race that reaches 150 experience points will count for all the points.) When this limit is reached, the player cannot obtain experience points by racing until the next day. Experience Points can also be earned to a driver, kart or glider with point-boost tickets. A point-boost Ticket will earn 50 Experience Points to a driver, kart and glider and the player can use as many tickets as they own at every time. Any drivers, karts, and gliders at the maximum base points will waste any experience points gained, without any sort of redistribution or experience points saving for later. Drivers take a total of 657 experience points to reach the maximum base points, and karts and gliders take 471 experience points to reach the maximum base points. Base points are leveled up 25 times past the default amount before they reach the maximum base points. 

In Mario + Rabbids Sparks of Hope, XP is rewarded to the Heroes after clearing battles, unlike in other titles where the amount rewarded is determined by the quantity or types of enemies fought therein. 
The Heroes are also rewarded XP for clearing Quests, such as story-related Main Quests, and Side Quests such as Spark Quests, Side Quests offered by Madame Bwahstrella, and those involving defeating giant boss versions of certain enemies. For a listing of how much XP is needed to advance levels for each Hero, see: Mario + Rabbids Sparks of Hope level up progressions.
Sparks can gain XP to level up when the player feeds them Star Bits. For every 10 Star Bits given, a Spark receives 10 XP.