Expresso is an Animal Friend first appearing in Donkey Kong Country. He is an ostrich with the appearance of a regular male one, complete with black and white feathers, but he also wears a pair of sports sneakers. Expresso can run fast and glide through the air by flapping his wings. His name is a portmanteau of "express" and "espresso," a type of coffee.

Expresso is an ally in Donkey Kong Country. He is encountered in Temple Tempest, Orang-utan Gang, Ice Age Alley, and Misty Mine. Expresso cannot defeat any enemies by jumping on them, even harming him in the process. Expresso is unaffected by Klaptraps, which pass through his long legs. Expresso's main ability is gliding distances while flapping his wings. Like the other Animal Friends, Expresso has his own bonus stage (named Expresso Bonus! in the Game Boy Advance version), and the Kongs can enter it by obtaining three Expresso Tokens. The bonus stage is set in a jungle-themed area, and like other Animal Friend stages, Expresso must collect as many mini Expresso Tokens within the time limit in exchange for extra lives. The sound effect of when Expresso hits an enemy is identical to the one of a Mini-Necky being defeated.

In Donkey Kong Country 2: Diddy's Kong Quest, golden statue of Expresso appears in the background inside the Monkey Museum.
In the Game Boy Advance remake, Expresso is a playable character in the Expresso's Racing minigame. Both Cranky and his pet Expresso are at Cranky's Hut, and before the game's events, Cranky used the "vast fortune" he made from his "starring role" in Donkey Kong Country to buy Expresso as a pet. However, Cranky wishes to raise Expresso as a racing bird, but his Expresso is too small and weak for racing competitions, so Cranky asks Diddy and Dixie Kong to find and obtain golden feathers, which each increase a bar of Expresso's Power, Speed, Acceleration, or Boost for the Expresso's Racing challenges. Expresso becomes increasingly larger each time a golden feather is given to him. Any time Expresso wins first place in Expresso's Racing, he wins a gold trophy, and when all six trophies are won, Cranky rewards Diddy and Dixie with a photograph of himself for the Scrapbook. Additionally, a photograph of Expresso appears in Animal Antics, and collecting the photograph causes it to appear under the thirteenth page of the Scrapbook.

Expresso is an ally in Donkey Kong Land. It is only one of the two Animal Buddies, the other one being Rambi the Rhino. Like Donkey Kong Country, Expresso also appears in four levels, in this case, Deck Trek, Mountain Mayhem, Landslide Leap, and Collapsing Clouds, however mostly just in Bonus Levels. A difference with Expresso is that he can now defeat enemies by jumping on them, including Zingers.

In the German Club Nintendo magazine comic "Donkey Kong in: Banana Day 24", Diddy and Dixie Kong are briefly seen riding Expresso to an airport.

Expresso appears in Picross NP Vol. 8 as one of the images that must be cleared.

Expresso makes a few cameos in the Super Smash Bros. series. In Super Smash Bros. Brawl, Expresso has a trophy that can be unlocked by collecting it when it appears at random in any of the game's modes, such as Vs. matches or the Home-Run Contest. In Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS, there is another collectible trophy of Expresso. In Super Smash Bros. Ultimate, Expresso is a Novice-class support spirit that takes up one support slot, and during battles, fighters who use the Expresso spirit begin with 30% damage but have increased movement speed.

In the Donkey Kong Adventure story of Mario + Rabbids Kingdom Battle, Expresso makes a cameo appearance as one of Rabbid Cranky's Boombow weapons, the Expresso Atomizer. The weapon is described as officially licensed Expresso the Ostrich merch. The description also mentions that it has double kneecaps for authenticity, referencing how bird legs are composed of two intermediary articulations, although they only have one kneecap for each leg.

A street name in New Donk City from Super Mario Odyssey is "Expresso Street". One of the store signs on the side of the buildings reads "Expresso Espresso".

An Expresso appears in the Banjo-Pilot course Jinxy's Dunes. This was a leftover from the Plain Pursuit stage from the 2003 build of Diddy Kong Pilot.

A stampede of Expressos appears at the start of the trailer for the canceled Nintendo GameCube title Donkey Kong Racing.