Feather Fiend is the boss level of the Factory world in Donkey Kong Country Returns and Donkey Kong Country Returns 3D. In this level, the Kongs must defeat Colonel Pluck, who pilots his Stompybot 3000, after being hypnotized by Cordian.

The level begins with a short metal platform sticking off of a wall. A DK Barrel and a pit can be located at the end. The Kongs must jump upwards and cling to some green-colored chains to climb up a sloped ceiling. After jumping to the next platform, a cutscene is triggered, featuring Donkey Kong and Diddy Kong finding themselves overlooking a room filled with conveyor belts and a big vat of mashed bananas while walking through the Factory. They learn that the mashed bananas are filled into empty wooden tiki heads to create Tiki Tanks. Afterwards, Colonel Pluck can be seen using the Stompybot 3000's feet to crush the bananas. Upon seeing the Kongs, Colonel Pluck shakes off the effects of the hypnosis, but Cordian comes in and re-hypnotizes him. He starts working again, causing the Kongs to jump onto the conveyor belt and engage in a battle with Colonel Pluck.

At the start, Colonel Pluck slowly walks towards the player to crush them with the robot's feet, requiring the player to carefully walk under him to safely get to the other side. Occasionally, he will speed up, which is indicated by the glass over the robot's cockpit turning from blue to red. After moving back and forth several times, Colonel Pluck launches himself into the air and attempts to hover over Donkey Kong to crush him. His attacks can be avoided by observing if the robot's feet are together before landing. When its feet are apart, the Kongs must move under it and duck in order to avoid being hurt by spikes found under the cockpit. The robot then exposes a small patch of green chains that can be clung onto. After clinging onto the chains, the player must shake their controllers to damage the robot. After doing this thrice, the robot will be destroyed.
After the robot is destroyed, Colonel Pluck detaches his cockpit and begins flying around in the air. He will quickly fly in one direction, and when he turns around and flies back across the room, he uses a trap door under the spikes to drop BuckBots onto the arena. Afterwards, he slows down and tries to land on the Kongs. After dodging this, the player should jump on Colonel Pluck's head to damage him. After doing this thrice, Donkey Kong jumps up and punches the top of Colonel Pluck's head, while Diddy Kong backflips off of his back. He attempts to fly away, but he falls to the ground and gets crushed by his cockpit. The player must then deal as many punches as they can to defeat Cordian and finish the level.