The Fire Koopa Clown Car (known as the Fire Junior Clown Car in the New Super Mario Bros. U style) is an object in Super Mario Maker (in version 1.3.0 or later), Super Mario Maker for Nintendo 3DS, and Super Mario Maker 2. It is a variant of the regular Koopa Clown Car/Junior Clown Car. Its exterior shell is golden-yellow, its propeller and rim are red, it has a flame design on its cheeks, and its mouth takes a circular form. It acts similarly to the normal Koopa Clown Car, but the player is able to shoot fireballs when riding in it, in a similar manner to Fire Mario. The car shoots fireballs horizontally from its mouth. Unlike Fire Mario's fireballs, these do not fall or bounce, but will continue moving horizontally until they collide with a block or enemy or remain off-screen for too long. If the player holds the button, then the Fire Koopa Clown Car charges up; this allows it to shoot a larger fireball that can destroy blocks. If Fire Mario rides the Fire Koopa Clown Car, then it will shoot three fireballs at once, rather than just one; one of the fireballs still moves forward horizontally, while the other two move forward diagonally, with one moving diagonally upwards and the other moving diagonally downwards. In the original Super Mario Maker, if Mario is Big Mario, then the Fire Koopa Clown Car will have a Peach design on it, always shoot fireballs capable of destroying blocks, and, if charged, shoot a flame that will destroy all of the blocks and enemies in its path without stopping (this also works if Mario is riding a big Goomba's Shoe or Stiletto). Enemies and items can ride Fire Koopa Clown Cars, which causes them to randomly shoot fireballs while moving on their own as an enemy like regular Koopa Clown Cars can (this ceases if the enemy or item exits the Clown Car, such as by being defeated or collected, respectively). If a giant-sized enemy is riding it, it will shoot larger fireballs capable of destroying blocks. 

In Super Mario Maker 2, they make a sinister expression if Link drops a bomb from one, like the Koopa Clown Car.
In Super Mario Maker and Super Mario Maker for Nintendo 3DS, when shaking a regular Koopa Clown Car or Junior Clown Car to transform it into a Fire Koopa Clown Car or Fire Junior Clown Car, a cuíca can be heard in the background.