Fire Breath is an ability Bowser can use in various games. True to its name, Fire Breath is a stream of fire that is expelled from the user's mouth. Although it is the signature ability of Bowser and, by extension, his skeletal form, other members of his species have been seen breathing fire, most notably Bowser Jr. and Bowser's Brother. It is closely related to Bowser's Flames, fireball obstacles created through the ability, though "Fire Breath" generally refers to large continuous jets of flame.

Bowser first uses this style of Fire Breath in Super Mario 64 (and reuses it in Super Mario 64 DS), where he uses it in Bowser in the Dark World when Mario stands near him. It is telegraphed by Bowser making a loud inhaling sound. Sometimes, small fires are left for a few moments in its wake, often producing coins when they go out. Later, in Bowser in the Sky, he uses a variation of it where he instead breathes the fire upwards, leading to many small flames raining downward. These sometimes include blue-colored (green in the DS version) flames among them that split into three Sparkies of the same color upon landing.

In Super Mario Sunshine, Mecha-Bowser is first shown using Fire Breath in Pinna Park. When Mario passes by on the roller coaster, he must use F.L.U.D.D. to hold the flames back so he can pass safely. Later, Bowser uses Fire Breath in the final battle in Corona Mountain. He attacks by breathing massive gusts of flames over the sections of the slime-filled tub Mario is traversing.

In Super Mario Galaxy, Micro Mecha-Bowsers use Fire Breath to attack, particularly after waking up from being stunned. They can turn while they breath the fire.

In Super Mario Galaxy 2, Bowser uses his fire breath as one of his attacks, spewing a continuous stream of fire across the planet as he chases Mario or Luigi. Micro Mecha-Bowsers reappear with the same behavior as in the predecessor.

In New Super Mario Bros. 2, Giant Bowser and his Dry Bowser counterpart use Fire Breath during the final chase, sweeping it across the platform Mario stands on. Giant Dry Bowser's is blue, but it functions the same.

In the Bowser's Fury mode of Super Mario 3D World + Bowser's Fury, Fury Bowser uses Fury Blasts, an enhanced version of his normal Fire Breath, which can be avoided by diving with Plessie or hiding behind walls. Fury Bowser's Fury Blasts can also destroy Disaster Spikes and Fury Blocks, which may reward coins and a Cat Shine, respectively, when destroyed. Upon being purged of the black paint, Giant Bowser also spews fireballs to stop Mario and Plessie from regaining the Giga Bells.

Bowser uses his Fire Breath in his final fight against Mario in Super Mario Odyssey. After Bowser is damaged, he jumps to the center of the room and sweeps a large stream of fire around the arena in an attempt to burn Mario. The attack is rather fast, and can only be dodged by jumping over it. A ring of fire forms around Bowser as he uses the attack, protecting him and preventing Mario from getting too close. Some of the Bowser Statues in Bowser's Kingdom also use it.

Although Bowser does not use Fire Breath during battle in Super Mario Bros. Wonder, he does briefly use it in the prologue right before grabbing the Wonder Flower and becoming Castle Bowser.

In the Mario Party series, Bowser uses his Fire Breath to hinder the characters' progress in the minigames. He also uses it for any other purposes in the games, such as Bowser minigames.
Uses of Fire Breath appear the following places:

In the opening of Paper Mario before Mario falls near Goomba Village, Bowser finishes Mario off with a powerful fire breath attack that does 10 damage. Bowser uses this same technique on the Power Platform at the very end of the game.
He also uses the fire breath offscreen on Kammy and Jr. Troopa during the ending parade, in retaliation for their magic war causing him to be caught in the crossfire.

In Paper Mario: The Thousand-Year Door, Bowser uses Fire Breath in the battles between him and Mario. He can also use it in his side-scrolling levels with .

Bowser uses this move in Super Paper Mario and it is his special move in the game when the player presses the . It can be used to attack enemies from a distance, giving Bowser a slight advantage, and can also light torches.

In Paper Mario: Sticker Star, Bowser uses fire in the battle with Mario and uses different variations of the move. During the second phase, a more powerful variant of the move can cause a page of Mario's sticker album to be cleared.

In Paper Mario: Color Splash, Bowser again uses Fire Breath in battle.

In Paper Mario: The Origami King, Bowser uses Fire Breath to attack enemies while he is allied with Mario in his folded state, dealing 50 damage (25 to Fire Bros and 75 to Ice Bros), or 75 damage if the Ally Tambourine is equipped (37 to Fire Bros and 112 to Ice Bros). This can sometimes fail, resulting in Bowser only spitting a small puff. Mechakoopas can also attack Mario with a Fire Breath move.

In Luigi's Mansion, King Boo uses Fire Breath during his final battle, where he dons a Bowser suit.

Fire Breath is one of the special moves used by Bowser and Giga Bowser in the Super Smash Bros. series. Bowser and Giga Bowser use this move whenever the  Button is pressed. It is exactly the same as a Fire Flower, except that the flames become smaller the more it is used; in Super Smash Bros. Melee, Bowser begins to exhale smoke that does not deal damage after a while, though in later games this does not happen. Giga Bowser's Fire Breath can be used indefinitely in Super Smash Bros. Melee, although it adopts the weaknesses of Bowser's version as of Super Smash Bros. Brawl, due to him becoming Bowser's Final Smash. In Super Smash Bros. Brawl and Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS / Wii U, Yoshi can also use Fire Breath, although he can only do so via his own Final Smash, Super Dragon. In Super Smash Bros. Ultimate, Petey Piranha can also breathe a continuous stream of fire during Piranha Plant's Final Smash.
The box art for Super Smash Bros. Melee was originally going to feature Bowser hurting Mario with his Fire Breath, but was changed in the final version of the game.
Bowser and Giga Bowser's Fire Breath is somewhat of a long-distanced move, and is usually best to use when the enemy is coming in for close-range combat. Starting in Super Smash Bros. Brawl, players can also angle the flames up and down with the control stick. However, the move will leave Bowser and Giga Bowser motionless while using the attack, and will leave their backs open for attack. If Bowser or Giga Bowser fully use up this attack, they will have to wait about 10 seconds for it to be fully recharged again. In comparison, Super Dragon's Fire Breath functions quite differently. Not pressing any buttons will result in Yoshi exhaling a stream of flames, similarly to Bowser. Conversely, pressing the attack button will result in him exhaling a powerful Fireball. One of Ridley's attacks, Plasma Breath, has a similar function to Fire Breath.
Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS / Wii U introduces customizable special moves that only Bowser can utilize, as Giga Bowser can only use the default Fire Breath. Fire Breath, like all others, has two variants. The first one is Fire Shot, which has Bowser exhale a single Fireball that travels forward and pierces enemies; the move can be used consecutively by holding down the special attack button, and does not decrease in power the more it is used. The second is Fire Roar, which is more powerful and has longer range at first, but loses power faster and takes longer to recharge.

In the Mario Golf series, Bowser uses a variation of the move as his skill shot.  In the opening clip of Mario Golf: Toadstool Tour, he is seen breathing fire when he got angry from receiving a black eye. In Mario Golf: World Tour, Bowser uses this attack on the camera when he gets an eagle or better.
In Mario Golf: Super Rush, Bowser's Fire Breath is referred to as the Power of Flame. He uses it to conquer Mount Snow by awakening the dormant volcano and make it erupt and destroy the kingdom so he can terraform it into his own golf course: Bowser Highlands. After Fire Mario wakes up Bowser at the end of the Golf Adventure mode, he uses the Power of Flame again to defeat the Snow King and restore his course.

In Mario & Luigi: Superstar Saga, Bowser uses a small stream of Fire Breath during his tutorial battle as his only attack; in its Nintendo 3DS remake, this is replaced with a fireball. Bowletta, a transformation between Cackletta's spirit and Bowser, uses a much larger version of it when the Mario Bros. encounter her in the throne room of Bowser's Castle to engage the bros in battle. In battle, one of her attacks involves her placing blocks with numbers on them above Mario and Luigi's heads which need to be destroyed by rapidly striking them before she, after a few seconds, tries to burn them both with this attack to avoid taking damage.

In Mario & Luigi: Partners in Time, Baby Bowser is first shown using his own fire breath on the young Toadsworth prior to the tutorial battle against him, though in the battle itself he uses fireballs. In the battle against both Bowsers, the adult Bowser breaths streams of fire at either bro, but will occasionally smirk and fake them out with harmless puff before performing the attack for real. He does this both as his main attack and as a retaliatory attack.

Fire Breath is also one of Bowser's commands in Mario & Luigi: Bowser's Inside Story and its Nintendo 3DS remake. When used in battle, Bowser will inhale and when his face turns red, the player must press and hold  or  to execute the technique, burning any enemy in his path. In Giant Battles, the action changes. The player must blow into the DS microphone (tap the Touch Screen in the 3DS remake) for the attack to be successful. The attack can also be used out of battle by pressing  to ignite Launch Fits, burn trees and flowers, and more. However, when Bowser first appears in Cavi Cape, he is unable to use this ability due to (as later found out in Plack Beach) a Scutlet clogging his Flame Pipe. Once the Mario Bros. defeat the Scutlet, Bowser's Flame Pipe returns back to normal and he can use his Fire Breath again.
When fighting against Bowser or Bowser X as Mario and Luigi, he will sometimes perform a more powerful version of the attack that covers the entire field, though it takes several seconds for him to charge. The only way to avoid this is to grab and hold on to Starlow. The Dark Star uses the Fire Breath when absorbing Bowser's DNA in the Airway late in the game, and Dark Bowser uses this move as well, charging it while Bowser avoids the burning fragments of a boulder Dark Bowser threw and destroyed. To prevent Dark Bowser from using the Fire Breath move, one of the boulder fragments must be punched into his mouth, causing a buildup and explosion of dark energy.

In Mario & Luigi: Dream Team, Bowser, supercharged by Antasma, spits purple fire in arcs, then breaths orange fire back-and-forth over the area Mario stands. He additionally shoots a flurry of fire over Mario as a giant Spike Ball and chases his through an obstacle course of the resulting flames, with purple fire needing gone around and orange fire being able to be jumped. Giant Bowser uses the attack midway through his battle; to avoid it, Giant Luigi must jump and grab onto a nearby Shy Guy Airtub, then counter by landing on Giant Bowser's head. Dreamy Bowser uses his own version of the attack, chasing Mario and Luigi while shooting three huge jets of rainbow-colored fire at once, which he sweeps back and forth while they need to jump over them. At the beginning of the bonus fight against Bowser Jr., he breaths fire at the camera.

In Mario & Luigi: Paper Jam, Papercraft Bowser uses Fire Breath as one of its main attack, slowly turning around to try and sweep Papercraft Fire Mario into it. Eventually, it causes Papercraft Bowser to overheat, making it stop for a few moments while the trio's papercraft can attack by shooting fireballs into its mouth to overheat it further enough to daze and damage it. Later in the battle, it stops sooner, and thus does not overheat.
Bowser uses his Fire Breath along with his paper counterpart in their battle, combining it into an even stronger stream at Paper Mario that only his extra-high jumping ability can dodge. Shiny RoboBowser can also use it during the battle, also towards Paper Mario, after he attempts punching Mario and Luigi several times. He also uses it while pursuing them through the air after turning his hands into wings. Another move of his, based on the Trio Moves, has him turn the trio into scraps of paper and breath his Fire Breath at them, while them much jump to avoid it.
In the bonus fought, Dry Bowser also breaths a cloud of blue flames at Paper Mario after he throws his head to attack him (following several bone-throwing attacks to the bros) and it gets countered with a stomp. It must be jumped over or stood under, depending on which way he breathes. He breaths an even larger amount, covering the whole field, after his Thwomp-summoning attack; attacking the Thwomps as they fall causes them to flip over and shield the trio from the attack, and then attack Dry Bowser in retaliation for the fire.

In both Mario Kart Arcade GP and Mario Kart Arcade GP 2, Bowser (or Mecha-Bowser, if Bowser is the player character) uses Fire Breath in the challenge game for the Bowser Cup. He sweeps it back and forth across the platform the player is on, and the player can jump to avoid it while using Black Shells to destroy his own platform.

In Mario Power Tennis and Mario Tennis: Power Tour, the Fire Breath is the Offensive Power Shot used by Bowser. It involves Bowser breathing fire on the ball and sending it over the court alight.

Bowser use his the Fire Breath in Mario Tennis Aces as part of his Special Shot. The movie is called the "Fire Breath Barrage" and consists of Bowser setting his tennis racket ablaze with his fiery breath to hit the ball.

In Super Princess Peach, Bowser can attack Peach with a huge stream of Fire Breath that can be ducked under. As Bowser 2, he can shoot streams of fire from the background, which can be told apart from normal fireballs by his eyes glowing orange as he inhales.

In Mario Hoops 3-on-3, Bowser uses a variation of the Fire Breath as his Special Shot known as Bomber Dunk. When he performs it, he sets the ball on fire and he leaps into the air and dunks it, with a column of flames appearing afterward.

Bowser uses his Fire Breath in Super Mario Strikers. Anyone hit by it will be knocked back and appear to be burned for a short time.

In Mario Strikers Charged, Bowser uses a Super Ability! called Fire Storm: when he uses it, he breathes fire that will render the characters on fire, including his teammates. He also uses it in one of his losing animations, in which he angrily breathes fire all around himself, setting his own teammates on fire in the process.

In Mario Strikers: Battle League, Bowser's Hyper Strike involves him setting the ball on fire through his Fire Breath before tossing it towards the goal. His losing animation in the same game also has him furiously breathing fire towards the sky.

In Yoshi Topsy-Turvy, Bowser uses his Fire Breath as his primary attack. Yoshi can Flutter Jump over it to avoid it. It is made of a line of upwards-pointing fires.

In Yoshi's Woolly World, Baby Bowser spits several streams of Fire Breath to the ceiling from the background every time he gets damaged, and can even shoot multiple streams at once. The flames fall to the floor in a wave.

Bowser's Fire Breath has sometimes appeared in the Mario & Sonic series. In the Wii version of Mario & Sonic at the Olympic Games, Bowser uses Fire Breath as his special shot in the Dream Table Tennis event. In the Nintendo DS version of Mario & Sonic at the Olympic Winter Games, Bowser uses Flame Dash, a variation of the Fire Breath, as his special skill: it encases him in a fiery aura that allows him to move very fast.

In Mario Super Sluggers, Bowser uses a Star Swing move called Breath Swing. He creates a column of fire from the fireballs.

In Mario Sports Superstars, Bowser uses this attack on the camera during golf after getting an Eagle or better, same as Mario Golf: World Tour. Most of his specials involve him breathing fire.

In Dr. Mario World, Dr. Bowser's skill and Dr. Dry Bowser's skill has them breathe fire across random row(s) pf the stage, eliminating objects. Viruses affected are scorched, then eliminated. Dr. Dry Bowser uses blue fire. The rows are required to be adajcent and at least one object in the rows has to be clearable. In Stage Mode, it always clears two rows, but in Versus Mode it clears one, two, or three rows depending on the doctor's Skill Level.