The Flame Flyer is a kart from the Mario Kart series. The kart's appearance is similar to a 1970 Plymouth Barracuda due to its front fascia and overall design, its six exhaust pipes (three on each side) and its engine sticking out of its hood that shakes. The kart also features flame motifs and bears the Mario Kart trademark name on the tires. The emblem is located on the doors and rear of the kart. Despite that the exhaust pipes are located on the sides of the vehicle, the cloud of exhaust still comes out from the back of the vehicle when the player gets an engine bust.

The Flame Flyer first appears in Mario Kart Wii, as a kart exclusive to large-sized drivers. It features great speed and weight, along with good drift and Mini-Turbo performing; it is the fourth fastest vehicle (third fastest kart) in the game, with its speed being tied with that of the Sneakster. It is also fairly heavy, with its weight being tied with the Standard Kart L and Wario Bike; it is the fourth heaviest vehicle in the game, after the Honeycoupe, Offroader, and Piranha Prowler. However, it suffers from the third worst handling in the game, after the Jetsetter and Spear, and it is tied with the latter in off-road performance, both having the second worst off-road in the game.
More significantly, the Flame Flyer has the worst acceleration of all vehicles in the game, meaning it starts off very slowly if a Rocket Start is not performed and recovers slowly if hit by items such as Shells. However, if Waluigi or Large Mii uses the Flame Flyer, the acceleration will exceed that of the Flame Runner, as both characters receive an acceleration bonus. Additionally, the acceleration of Waluigi's Flame Flyer will exceed that of the Jetsetter and Wild Wing by one point. And if Donkey Kong uses the Flame Flyer, the acceleration will almost be the same as the Flame Runner. If Bowser rides the Flame Flyer, its weight will tie with the Offroader and its speed also ties with the Sprinter.
The kart's bike counterpart is the Flame Runner. Compared to the Honeycoupe, the Flame Flyer is faster, but has slightly lower stats in every other stat category. The Flame Flyer shares its engine sound with the Mini Beast and the Wild Wing (its respective small and medium counterparts). The exact same sound is recycled for the B Dasher and Bruiser in Mario Kart 7.

The Flame Flyer returns in Mario Kart Tour, where it is classified as a Super kart. It uses the Off-Road tires from Mario Kart 8 and Mario Kart 8 Deluxe. However, unlike its Mario Kart Wii appearance, it only has Bowser's color scheme no matter which driver is using it, and its engine no longer shakes. The Flame Flyer increases the duration of Rocket Start speed boosts and the number of points earned for performing a Rocket Start.
The game introduces three High-End variants of this kart: a white and pink variant named the Wildfire Flyer that was first made available in the 2019 Winter Tour, a red, white and blue variant called the Star-Spangled Flyer that first appeared in the 2020 Los Angeles Tour, and a black and orange variant called the Inferno Flyer which debuted in the Bowser vs. DK Tour.

It's a muscle car revival! Who can deny the awesome presence of a blower popping out of the hood? The Flame Flyer packs very high levels for Speed and Weight, with lower levels for Acceleration and Handling stats.