Flibbees R are blue bees with yellow eyes and two feet that appear in Mario & Luigi: Dream Team. They are an enhanced version of Flibbees, and as such, have enhanced stats and faster attacks. Additionally, unlike their regular counterparts, the Flibbees R can cause POW-Down with their attacks. Mario and Luigi also cannot battle them alone, as Monolifts, Grumbells, and Pi'illodactyls assist the Flibbees R. Flibbees R act just like their regular counterparts outside of battle, walking around aimlessly and taking to the air to charge at anyone who draws near.
In battle, Flibbees R attack differently, depending on their position (either mid-air or on the ground). Attacking them causes their position to change; if they were in mid-air, they drop to the ground and become exhausted. If they were on the ground, they get angry and take to the air. If ambushed in the field, Flibbees R change their position at the very start of battle.
In mid-air, Flibbees R have their stinger pointing downward (being thusly vulnerable to jump attacks), and can dodge ground-based attacks due to their flight ability. When it attacks from mid-air, the Flibbee R will come flying at a bro on its side after possibly rolling its eyes in circles up to three times. It will then do the same amount of loops as the number of times it rolled its eyes in a circle, and then fly into the bro, who must jump before it hits him in order to dodge.
If it is on the ground, the Flibbee R has its spike pointing straight up, rendering jump attacks useless. A Flibbee R that attacks from the ground will fly at a bro and aim its spike at him as it flies back and forth barely away from the bro; the target must smack it with his hammer when it comes into range to knock it into another enemy, in normal mode dealing 21 damage to other Flibbees R, 20 to Monolifts, and 14 to Grumbells, or if there are no others, into the ground. If the counterattack kills the Flibbee R, the Flibbee R will fly into the other enemies before bursting into stars.