The Flopside Pit of 100 Trials is a 100-room labyrinth in Super Paper Mario, similar to the Pit of 100 Trials in Paper Mario: The Thousand-Year Door. However, in this game there are two pits - one in Flopside, and one in Flipside, the latter pit being called the Flipside Pit of 100 Trials. Both were created to test the forces that guard the Pure Hearts. The Flopside version was used to study the powers of darkness.
Accessing the Flopside Pit is done in a manner similar to its Flipside counterpart, except the switch that opens the entrance does not appear until the Flipside Pit is cleared. Once the Flipside pit is cleared, a rift will appear above the sealed pipe leading to the pit. A blue switch appears when Fleep activates the rift and the block opens the way to the pit.
In the Pit, a random enemy in each room holds a Pit Key to a locked door that proceeds to the next room. Just like in the Flipside version, the player only has 5 minutes to defeat the enemy that has the key, and running out of time will result in an instant Game Over. The enemies in the Flopside Pit are far more dangerous than their Flipside counterparts, as they are all powerful, Dark silhouette versions. In every tenth room, there is a chest containing a Catch Card of a partner from the original Paper Mario (excluding the first one which has a Dashell card), a pipe leading out of the pit, and the door leading to the next room. Shadoo is the boss of the pit; however, the first time Mario's group makes it to the 100th room, they will be sent back to the entrance and will have to make their way through the pit a second time in order to fight Shadoo. Once the boss is defeated, the player receives cards of the playable characters and their Dark counterparts. The hero cards double the characters' attack and the Mario card allows Mario to remain in 3-D indefinitely without losing HP while he is in possession of it.
Both pits have artwork on the walls depicting a Pure Heart and where it is found, which changes every 25 rooms. In the Flopside pit, the walls of Rooms 1-25 depicts Squirpians standing alongside Squirpina XIV, who is holding the light blue Pure Heart. Rooms 26-50 have a dark blue Pure Heart paired with King Croacus I and some Floro Sapiens. Rooms 51-75 show a stylized version of King Sammer's kingdom with the seventh (purple) Pure Heart, and rooms 76-99 have Grambi, Queen Jaydes and the white Pure Heart representing Luvbi. Room 100 has a completely blank background.
The pit is designed to look like the LCD screen of an old Game & Watch System.