Flower Points (FP; also known as Flower Power) are a stat in Super Mario RPG: Legend of the Seven Stars (and, by extension, the Nintendo Switch remake), Paper Mario, and Paper Mario: The Thousand-Year Door. Flower Points are similar to Magic Points or Mana Points (MP) in other role-playing games such as Final Fantasy. Mario and his party use FP to perform special moves. The latter name may be a reference to a slogan coined by pacifists protesting the Vietnam War.
In Super Mario RPG: Legend of the Seven Stars, Flower Points can be used for attacks such as Mario's Super Jump attack and Mallow's Thought Peek. Mario's party has a combined supply of Flower Points. The maximum of Flower Points is not raised by a "level up" as with MP in other RPGs. Instead, Mario's party has to collect items such as Flower Jars and Flower Boxes to increase its total FP rating. While Mario's party adventures, there are several ways to replenish the party's FP count. There are a variety of syrups, items that restore FP. Flower Points are also restored when Mario sleeps in an inn or when he finds a Mushroom in a treasure box, which refill the party's FP supply and HP, or Health Points.

In the first two games of the Paper Mario series, Flower Points return and are used for many of Mario's and his partners' attacks. Mario can choose to increase his maximum FP when leveling up. Items like Honey Syrups, Maple Syrups, and Jammin' Jellies recover FP. In Super Paper Mario, Flower Points are seen only within the Flipside Arcade, serving as an item to briefly enhance the player's abilities in the Mansion Patrol and Tilt Island minigames. Additionally Happy Flowers are introduced, with a similar appearance but different function. In these games, the maximum number of Flower Points is raised at the player's own discretion whenever Mario levels up.
In Mario & Luigi: Superstar Saga, Mario & Luigi: Dream Team, Mario & Luigi: Paper Jam, and Mario & Luigi: Superstar Saga + Bowser's Minions, Bros. Points replace Flower Points, and they are used to perform Bros. Attacks, the series' special moves. In Mario & Luigi: Bowser's Inside Story, Bros. Points are renamed Special Points that are used to perform Special Attacks, though this was reverted in the remake, Mario & Luigi: Bowser's Inside Story + Bowser Jr.'s Journey.