Flurries (singular Flurry; occasionally pluralized Flurrys) are enemies introduced in Yume Kōjō: Doki Doki Panic and Super Mario Bros. 2. They are snowman-like creatures named after flurries, which are brief periods of snowfall.

Flurries are enemies in Yume Kōjō: Doki Doki Panic and Super Mario Bros. 2. They run along the ice chasing after Mario, Luigi, Peach, or Toad. Like them, they have poor traction on the ice and can slip off of the platform they are on. They only appear in World 4. In the rare instances that they can be led onto non-icy surfaces, such as the bottom of the second tower in World 4-3, they have perfect traction. In original releases, Flurries are entirely white, while in the Super Mario All-Stars and Super Mario Advance remakes, they are tinted pink and have blue feet.

Flurries are enemies in BS Super Mario USA. They make their return and play the same role as in the predecessor. They only appear in the third broadcast, which is also Subcon's icy area.

Flurries are enemies in Super Mario Advance 4: Super Mario Bros. 3. They are encountered only in the World-e level Treacherous Halls. Two Flurries appear, and they are shown with the ability to pass over spikes harmlessly. Other than this, Flurries are the same as in their debut appearance.

Some Flurries occasionally appeared in The Super Mario Bros. Super Show!, where they spoke, despite not having visible mouths. Due to Wart not appearing on the show, they work for King Koopa here, and one (Flaky) even had a name. Staying true to the spirit of the games, Flurries appeared only in episodes that are set in snowy environments: the Land of Ice in "The Bird! The Bird!", the North Pole from "Koopa Klaus", and the Thirteen Mushroom Colonies in "The Koopas are Coming! The Koopas are Coming!" Unlike in the game, some of them have arms.

A Flurry, alongside a Shy Guy and Snifit, attends Bowser's wedding to Princess Peach in the Super Mario Adventures comic.

In an installment of Dear Princess Toadstool feature in the Nintendo Comics System, a Flurry wrote to Princess Toadstool asking for a solution to get rid of snowflakes that are seen by other people as dandruff flakes. She responded that his friends should ignore the flakes, and he should respond back to strangers if they insult him. Immediately bellow her response has Luigi, as a barber, asking a Flurry if he wants to blow dry his "hair". He then told Luigi to just melt his sideburns.