The Freezeflame Galaxy is a galaxy in Super Mario Galaxy, accessed via the Bedroom. Its theme is the contrast between hot and cold environments, with roughly half of the areas visited being freezing landscapes covered in ice and snow, while the other half consists of ruins above pools of lava, inhabited by fire enemies. The cold portion of this galaxy is featured most prominently; four out of its six missions solely take place on icy planetoids. Baron Brrr, the galaxy's boss, also resides on the icy half. The name of this area is a play on the term "freezeframe".
While this galaxy does not return in Super Mario Galaxy 2, the Shiverburn Galaxy is similar in both its name and concept. The two galaxies also share the same background music.

The starting planet of the Freezeflame Galaxy is a toroidal mass of ice with several crystals and stone stumps on the surface. This planet has its own gravitational pull, allowing Mario to explore its underside. Two boulders roll along the inner side of the ring. The first time Mario lands here, he must ice skate around it to catch a small Penguin and make the Launch Star appear. In Freezeflame's Blistering Core, Mario must collect five Star Chips to make five Pull Stars and the Launch Star appear. In Hot and Cold Collide, this planet becomes infused with balls of fire and lava.

Freezy Peak is essentially the main planet in the galaxy, as it is the most often visited by Mario. It is a large planet in the shape of a very high and rocky mountain with three levels of lakes of freezing water. Mario first lands on a large ice slide at the base of the mountain; a second, smaller slide is hidden above the first lake. The slide ends before a small icy area inhabited by Goombas. The player can climb the three lake sections with the help of the Ice Flower and Bomps. Baron Brrr resides at the top lake. Higher up the mountain there are icy cliffs that Mario must scale. Here, he will also find Fire Flowers and snowmen to use them on.

This planet is the largest encountered in the galaxy. It is a large round sphere of cooled magma, through the center of which runs a large fissure filled with lava. Here, Mario has to traverse the temple-like structures and pathways rising from the lava, as well as sinking and rolling pillars. The platforms and structures seen within the fissure seem to be all that remains of what appears to be a ruined civilization that has now been inhabited by multiple Ground Urchins and Li'l Cinders. Crates are also found aplenty in this area.
This planet is only visited during the mission Freezeflame's Blistering Core.

This planet is a large sphere with two circular openings on either side that connect across the middle of it by means of a small passageway. One of the sides is filled with freezing water and many Urchins. There are also a few snow covered platforms sticking up out of the water. The other side is filled with lava, where Mario will find a double-sided cage that holds a Fire Flower. In the Hot and Cold Collide mission, Mario must spin a valve on one side of the cage in order to unlock it and access the Fire Flower, which is needed to complete the level. The tides on each side of the planet alternate in level.
The background music changes depending on which side of the planet Mario is on – "Ice Mountain" is used for the icy side (like in Freezy Peak), and "Lava Path" is used for the lava side (like in the Lava Core Planet). If the player looks up by the planet, they can see the Power Star halo effect. This is the location of the Power Star from the Hot and Cold Collide level. This halo is present on all levels, regardless of the scenario that was chosen.

These are square platforms made of pure ice or lava, forming a pathway with alternating gravity directions. An Ice Flower is provided so Mario can skate across the lava platforms. This is the final planet of Hot and Cold Collide, with the Power Star resting at the end of the path. In the mission Frosty Cosmic Mario/Luigi Race, the lava platforms are replaced with additional ice platforms.
This planet is also surrounded by multiple black holes, most of them being of substantial size, which will suck Mario and Luigi in if they fall off at any point.

As Mario approaches the Starting Planet in this galaxy, he flies past these three inaccessible spherical planets of pure lava, which look like three small suns, or the balls of lava lodged into the Starting Planet in Hot and Cold Collide.