Mario Circuit is the first race course of the Flower Cup in Mario Kart: Super Circuit. It shares its music with Peach Circuit and Luigi Circuit. It reappears in Mario Kart 8 and Mario Kart 8 Deluxe as the second course of the Shell Cup.

The course begins with a left turn followed by a slight right turn and the first set of Item Boxes. There is then two straightaways, with a U-turn to the left in between. Racers then take a right turn followed by a left turn and another item set; in between the two turns, there is a lone Item Box to the left of the track. After several slight turns, a left turn, and a slight right turn, racers reach the finish line. Near the finish line, racers have the option to take a narrow path to the right of the track, which contains a speed strip.

Mario Circuit makes its classic course debut in Mario Kart 8 and Mario Kart 8 Deluxe as the second course of the Shell Cup. Much like GBA Bowser Castle 1 in Mario Kart 7, this is the only GBA classic course in the base Mario Kart 8 content. It now features a starting banner with the classic Mario Kart logo in red, black-and-white tires around the posts, various stacked tires and advertisements, and wooden huts both filled with Toad and Yoshi spectators and oil cans. The large U-turn near the beginning of the track is slanted and separated from the track to act as an anti-gravity section. This section is balanced on what appear to be giant car jacks (which are named "Ultra Arm", a reference to the Ultra Hand), which can be seen rising to lift the section into its position in the course's preview, with many large Brick Blocks and Empty Blocks visible in the pit where the U-turn was originally. There are also oil slicks near the end of the track that cause players who collide with them to spin out, alongside some traffic cones that are knocked away when players collide with them. The detour near the finish line also contains an added Item Box in addition to the Dash Panel. Compared to the original, the road is also slightly banked through the curves.
The music has been modified to a slightly lower pitch and plays in A#/B♭ major on the first two laps and then in B major on the final lap, as opposed to C major in the original. Overall, the arrangement appears to be based on that of the Mario Kart: Super Circuit prototype.
This rendition of the course was shown in a GLA commercial cross-promoting the car and Mario Kart 8, albeit with a more realistic approach, featuring the raised hairpin turn in the background.

"This circuit has been dramatically reworked, so we reflected that in the music by rearranging it and making generous use of a horn section."