Luigi Circuit is the first course of the Lightning Cup in Mario Kart: Super Circuit. It is the longest of the three circuits and is Luigi's home track of the game. It is the first Mario Kart track to ever take place in the rain, and would remain the only course with this distinction until Neo Bowser City in Mario Kart 7. This is the only Luigi Circuit course to not appear in the Mushroom Cup (meaning it is placed after a Mario Circuit race).
The course is set on what appears to be an airfield filled with rain puddles during a downpour, which when driven through cause drivers to spin out and lose speed. In the background are hangars numbered "64" and "65", flanking a radio control building. In the third lap, a Luigi blimp takes off and flies around (the same blimp can be seen in Sky Garden). The course features many tight turns suited for drifting and winds around circuitously several times, akin to a real-life kart racing track. It shares its music with Peach Circuit and Mario Circuit.
Luigi Circuit reappears in Mario Kart DS as the third race of the Leaf Cup, and in Mario Kart Tour starting from the 2023 Mario vs. Luigi Tour.

The course begins with a right turn followed by a left turn and a U-turn to the right. Racers then encounter the first set of Item Boxes and take a slight right turn and a sharp U-turn to the left. There is then a right turn, a right U-turn, and a 135° left turn that leads into a straightaway; at the end of the straightaway is an individual Item Box on the left side. After the straightaway, there is another right U-turn and the track slightly serpentines for a while, with the last item set at the end of this section. A left U-turn, a brief straightaway, a right U-turn, and another brief straightaway then brings racers to the finish line.
Throughout the course, puddles regularly appear as obstacles.

A notable shortcut can be found where the track slightly serpentines. The player can drive through the grass to the left of the track, passing through a small gap in the wall and cutting off the following U-turn.

This version of Luigi Circuit makes its classic course debut in Mario Kart DS, as the third course of the Leaf Cup. The layout is mostly identical to its original one, with a few differences. The second to last shortcut located by the end of the course has been removed. Many trees have been added to various off-road locations of the course. The blimp now only starts to take off on the second lap, and the numbers on the two hangars have been changed into 00's.
Not counting Mario Kart Tour, this is one of only six classic courses in the series to share its music with another classic course in the same game, sharing its music with GBA Peach Circuit. The other four are GCN Yoshi Circuit and GCN Luigi Circuit in the same game, and DS Wario Stadium and DS Waluigi Pinball in Mario Kart 8 Deluxe.

There is one mission that takes place on Luigi Circuit:

This version of Luigi Circuit returns in Mario Kart Tour starting from the 2023 Mario vs. Luigi Tour. The course has been significantly changed visually, with a forest now surrounding the track, breaks in the clouds, and the mountains being far taller and capped with snow. The layout has been simplified somewhat, with numerous bends from the original being straightened out and the serpentine portion being less dramatic. The sheds in the background have been redesigned, and seem closer to the course; some flagpoles and power lines also appear. The mud around the edges of the road has been removed. Unlike most GBA remakes in Tour, the course remains flat much like the original, though some elevation has been added to the end of the course, including two ramps. The blimp now bears the design of the Luigi Parafoil, still reading "Luigi Raceway", and now flies over the track throughout the race. The width of the road appears to be somewhat thinner. A starting line banner has been added, featuring the classic Mario Kart logo with a satellite dish on the right metal pole on it. Like GBA Yoshi Desert, the colored blocks follow the pattern of the SNES courses instead of the GBA ones in Tour.
The course also appears as Luigi Circuit R (reversed), Luigi Circuit T (with ramps), and Luigi Circuit R/T (reversed with ramps). In the T variant, there are two big Piranha Plants. In the R/T variant, racers can use a glide ramp at the end of the lap to glide over the finish line.

For this course's tour appearances, see List of GBA Luigi Circuit tour appearances in Mario Kart Tour.

Select "show" to reveal the drivers, karts, and gliders for which GBA Luigi Circuit and its variants are always favored or favorite courses. For instances in which additional drivers, karts, and gliders temporarily had this course and its variants as favored or favorite courses, see List of GBA Luigi Circuit tour appearances in Mario Kart Tour.