Sunset Wilds is the fourth and final course of the Lightning Cup in Mario Kart: Super Circuit. The course is desert-themed and the sun is setting in the background. One of the most notable features of the track is that the evening progresses as the sun sets when each lap is completed, and the third lap is completed at nighttime. If the course takes place in five laps on Quick Run or VS. mode, the course remains in night for the duration of the race from the third lap.
This course also contains Shy Guy Tents housing Shy Guys that can grab karts, making them lose coins and become slower. In the Japanese version of the game, these Shy Guys wear Native American headdresses, which were removed in international versions, possibly to avoid racial controversy with the Native American culture, though they still are found in tipis. This was further altered in its Mario Kart Tour appearance, as the Shy Guy Tents and Shy Guy obstacles, Exploring Shy Guys, now take on an explorer theme.
Sunset Wilds returns in Mario Kart Tour, first appearing in the Sunset Tour. It also returns in Mario Kart 8 Deluxe as the second course of the Cherry Cup in the Booster Course Pass.

The course begins with a U-turn to the left and a sharp right turn, followed by a brief straightaway through a patch of mud; atop the mud patch are small areas of regular land as well as the first set of Item Boxes. Racers then take a left turn and pass a group of four speed strips, each of which is preceded by a small bump. Another left turn follows, which leads into a slight right turn with another patch of mud; this time, several of the small areas of land have speed strips on top. There is then a left turn, another item set, and a U-turn to the right. A straightaway and a left U-turn then lead into a section with wider speed strips as well as Shy Guy Tents; if a racer runs into a tent, a Shy Guy will pop out and grab the racer's kart, slowing them down and making them lose coins. The six speed strips in this section roughly lead into each other, guiding racers through the section, while the six Shy Guy Tents are placed throughout both sides of the track. Lastly, the section includes several slight turns that end with the final item set once racers pass the last tent. A right U-turn, a straightaway, a left U-turn, and another straightaway then bring racers to the finish line.
Throughout the course, rocks and cacti are visible to the sides of the track, as well as totem poles depicting Shy Guys, Snifits, and Toadies, however these do not act as significant obstacles. Animal tracks also appear on the road throughout the course, of no consequence to racers.

A notable shortcut can be found at the end of the Shy Guy Tent section. By going to the right of the track, the player can find a jump pad next to the multicolored wall. Using a Mushroom while going off of it allows the player to skip the subsequent right U-turn.

Sunset Wilds makes its classic course debut in Mario Kart Tour, starting with the Sunset Tour. The Shy Guys are now depicted as prospectors (named Exploring Shy Guys in-game), with the tents being redesigned to resemble prospector tents instead of tipis. The two totem poles were replaced by more cacti. The rocks were moved to the off-road and the bumps were removed. The archway that appears in the background of the original course is now on the road, and can be driven under. The mud after the second turn was moved to the side of the road and all Dash Panels except for the ones on the second mud part were removed. The two U-turns before the finish line were removed and replaced with a part with hills and Swoops that appear at night. The course now changes to night after a set period of time, approximately the time required to complete one lap, due to the course now only having two laps. The course also now has a proper starting banner with the classic Mario Kart logo that is supported by two flagpoles that are sprouting up from Warp Pipes.
Excluding courses from Mario Kart 7, Sunset Wilds is the first course to make its classic course debut in Mario Kart Tour, the first Super Circuit course that is not a Bowser's Castle course, and the first classic course to receive a new arrangement for its music.
The course also appears as Sunset Wilds R (reversed), Sunset Wilds T (with ramps), and Sunset Wilds R/T (reversed with ramps). The former two debuted alongside the normal variant in the Sunset Tour, while the latter debuted in the 2020 Mario vs. Luigi Tour. In the T variant, there is a glide ramp just before the hills. In the R/T variant, there are now many Monty Moles throughout the course, and the Shy Guys are on a different part of the track.
From version 3.0.0. until version 3.2.1, there was a bug that caused the ground to keep its night palette from the start of the course when replaying the course after finishing a previous race.

For this course's tour appearances, see List of GBA Sunset Wilds tour appearances in Mario Kart Tour.

Select "show" to reveal the drivers, karts, and gliders for which GBA Sunset Wilds and its variants are always favored or favorite courses. For instances in which additional drivers, karts, and gliders temporarily had this course and its variants as favored or favorite courses, see List of GBA Sunset Wilds tour appearances in Mario Kart Tour.

Sunset Wilds makes its home console debut in Mario Kart 8 Deluxe as part of Wave 5 of the Booster Course Pass DLC. It appears as the second course of the Cherry Cup. The track is based on its appearance from Mario Kart Tour, but with a graphical overhaul. Similar to GBA Boo Lake and GBA Riverside Park, the cartoony clouds have been removed in favor of a more realistic skybox. The pipes holding up the starting line have changed colors, going from green to blue. Toads, Yoshis, and Shy Guys have been added as spectators to several locations in the course. Additional Shy Guys can be seen inside the tents. The number of Exploring Shy Guys has been reduced from four to three. They now drop 3 coins if they're hit with an item. There are now arrow signs placed throughout the course. The Dash Panels during the mud section are much bigger and can now be tricked off of. A wooden ramp now appears as part of the shortcut behind the first tent on the left. Smoke signals are now visible on top of some of the buttes in the background. Unlike its previous iterations, the sky no longer changes as the laps progress. The soundtrack now has a much more orchestral-like style staying true to the Western theme, while the banjo now plays nearly the whole song as a backing track. The Exploring Shy Guys also vocalize along to the music when driving past them, making it the fourth course in the game to feature Shy Guys singing to the music, the first three being Shy Guy Falls, Wii Wario's Gold Mine, and Wild Woods, and the only course in the Booster Course Pass with this distinction.
Prior to the course's official announcement for the Booster Course Pass, screenshots of the Mario Kart Tour iteration of Sunset Wilds were included among the many pictures used in an alternative banner designMedia:MK8DX BCP Leak.jpg, located within Mario Kart 8 Deluxe's internal data present in version 2.0.0 of the game. Additionally, a very brief portion of Sunset Wilds' music was present within the internal data for Mario Kart 8 Deluxe in version 2.1.0. The filename for the music snippet was "Cnsw_53", indicating it was originally assigned to the third course of the Feather Cup.