Cheep-Cheep Island is the third course of the Lightning Cup in Mario Kart: Super Circuit. It features a series of islands surrounded by the sea that are connected by seven bridges. It is similar aesthetically to Shy Guy Beach and shares a music theme with it, though it takes place at sunset and has more grass (particularly in the original version). Large Cheep-Cheeps are seen jumping in the background, and Sidesteppers and Little Birdies appear around the course in its original appearance.
Cheep-Cheep Island reappears in Mario Kart Tour starting from the 2021 Summer Tour.

The course begins with a brief straightaway that takes racers over a bridge, followed by a 90째 turn to the left and a slight S-bend that takes racers across another bridge. Racers then drive straight across an island with the first pair of Sidesteppers and onto a bridge with the first set of Item Boxes. There is then a large island with a left turn followed by two brief split paths, as racers must go left or right around two areas of grass; to the left of each area of grass is a wide speed strip, and to the right of the second area is another item set. Additionally, there are another three Sidesteppers on this island. Racers then drive across another three bridges with two 90째 left turns in between, with another Sidestepper located just before the third bridge. Afterwards there are two 90째 right turns with a jump pad in between, followed by a very long bridge; the bridge first briefly splits into two paths, as racers must go left or right. The last Item Boxes are also found here, with one on the left path and two on the right path. Once the paths join, the bridge makes two sharp 90째 left turns. Once off the bridge, racers take a slight right turn and a slight left turn and reach the finish line immediately after.

A notable shortcut can be found just after the fifth bridge. If the player drives straight instead of taking the following left turn, they can reach a narrow jump pad; using a Mushroom while going off it will allow the player to reach two more jump pads which then lead them onto the final bridge, saving a lot of time.

Cheep-Cheep Island makes its classic course debut in Mario Kart Tour, making its debut as the featured course of the 2021 Summer Tour. The course received many notable changes; most of the grass on the course has been removed, the starting line now has a wooden banner with the classic Mario Kart logo on it, and the second bridge on the course is now straight instead of a zig-zag shape. The biggest change to the course is that the fourth, fifth, and sixth bridges have been removed in favor of having two large, grassy islands separated by a small stream with several large rocks close to where the fifth bridge was. The track itself in this area is now much narrower and no longer features any Dash Panels or multicolored blocks. The three small islands and a section of the first large island now feature a rising and falling tide forming a newly added underwater section, making this course the first classic course in Mario Kart Tour to gain a new underwater section, and it would be the only course with this distinction until the addition of GBA Boo Lake in the 2022 Halloween Tour. The tide changes are indicated by the darker-colored areas of the course map. The final bridge now starts off with a right turn into a longer straightaway before the split. Next to the first bridge, an underwater section is added, though it is located off-road. While the large Cheep Cheeps still appear, the Little Birdies and Sidesteppers have been replaced by jumping and flying Cheep Cheeps. Both shortcuts have also been removed. 
The course also appears as Cheep-Cheep Island R (reversed), Cheep-Cheep Island T (with ramps), and Cheep-Cheep Island R/T (reversed with ramps). The latter first debuted in the 2023 New Year's Tour. In the T and R/T variants, the Cheep Cheeps jumping on the course between the two islands are gone, though in the R/T variant racers are taken out over the water as two Cheep Cheeps jump out onto the track directly towards racers.
Similar to SNES Ghost Valley 1, the course uses the Mario Kart Wii arrangement of its music, which is heard in GBA Shy Guy Beach.

For this course's tour appearances, see List of GBA Cheep-Cheep Island tour appearances in Mario Kart Tour.

Select "show" to reveal the drivers, karts, and gliders for which GBA Cheep-Cheep Island and its variants are always favored or favorite courses. For instances in which additional drivers, karts, and gliders temporarily had this course and its variants as favored or favorite courses, see List of GBA Cheep-Cheep Island tour appearances in Mario Kart Tour.