Daisy Cruiser is the third course of the Flower Cup in Mario Kart: Double Dash!! and is Princess Daisy's home track of the game. The course takes place, as the name suggests, on a large cruise ship that has various floors and a giant logo of Daisy's head on the sides. The cruiser also has a dining room with moving tables that act as obstacles for the player, a large pool that has a picture of Princess Daisy at the bottom, and a set of hallways. Also included is a basement leading to a giant air vent, and various flower motifs throughout the cruiser's design. Piantas can be seen in the cruiser as well, waving at the players. This course shares its music with Peach Beach, where Daisy Cruiser can be seen in the distance. Daisy Cruiser is also seen in the backgrounds in Yoshi Circuit and the Mario Kart Wii track Daisy Circuit.
Daisy Cruiser reappears in Mario Kart 7 as the third course of the Leaf Cup, in Mario Kart Tour starting with the Ocean Tour, and in Mario Kart 8 Deluxe as the second course of the Feather Cup in the Booster Course Pass.

The player starts out in the top deck where there is a turn right and a soft left exit that leads into a straight metal road that has Item Boxes moving left and right, unlike stationary Item Boxes. After the road is a 90° left wide turn staircase leading into the turn right around circular pool with Daisy's picture in it. If players fall into the pool, they will get picked up by Lakitu and bring the player back up to the track.
After the pool is a 180° left turn down a steep winding metal staircase, heading into the dining room. The tables in this room slide from left to right, slowing down drivers who bump into them. Item Boxes are also found sliding left and right, just like the tables.

After the dining room is a sharp 270° right turn , and a very sharp 90° left turn. The player will see Item Boxes on the left and an open hole on the right. If the player stays on track on the left at the exit of turn, they will come to another 90° left turn and a 70° right turn, which leads outside again. If the player falls into the hole, they will enter a cargo room with a Double Item Box, before entering a cannon that takes them back to outside the ship.
Racers then reach the bow of the ship, where there is a 170° right turn that exits into another straight path. In one-screen mode only, the player may bump into hanging life-savers, but it does not affect the player's speed. There is a straight upwards staircase and then onto the deck with the finish line on it.
There is an unseen dining table floating above the water.

Daisy Cruiser makes its classic course debut in Mario Kart 7 as the third course of the Leaf Cup. The course's map has been rotated 180 degrees alongside the Stars and arrows both no longer having eyes on them and the classic Mario Kart logo on the starting banner being resized and having altered gradients. Right after the starting line, instead of being forced to head right, one can now drive through the once-blocked left path. The floor of the passage on the right is now wooden. With the game's introduction of underwater driving, players can also drive through the swimming pool. All of the Piantas have been replaced with Miis. The banquet room now has fewer tables. Also, the cellar under the floor has become an aquarium filled with water, having Miis on the sidelines watching, a Unagi swimming around, and Clampys that, similarly to the ones on Cheep Cheep Lagoon, carry items inside. The hanging life-savers were removed. The cannon was also removed, instead having two Dash Panels, allowing the player to drive through it mostly as normal. However, the Dash Panels here behave differently to those in other courses as they automatically steer the player in the correct direction, even if driven on while facing sideways. 

This course does not have any intended shortcuts, but three glitch shortcuts, all of which are performed on the right-hand path at the start of the course:

Daisy Cruiser reappears in Mario Kart Tour starting with the Ocean Tour. It is the fifth course after DS DK Pass, DS Airship Fortress, Wii Maple Treeway, and 3DS Rosalina's Ice World to be the signature course of two tours (the Ocean Tour and the Sunshine Tour). The track is based on its Mario Kart 7 appearance; however, there are no more Item Boxes sliding along with the tables in the dining room. The Mario Kart logo above the dining hall entrance is replaced with the track name. The Clampies in the aquarium area no longer contain Item Boxes in them. The track has undergone a slight redesign, with the stripes near the bottom of the ship being brighter shades of red and orange, the aquarium outlet pipe is now yellow instead of orange, the gears near the front are a brighter blue color, and the ground around the pool and towards the end of the track now being colored green. The dining room and the hallway just after have been redesigned, with green, white and orange walls, and a crown-shaped chandelier is added to the dining room ceiling. Gardens with Yoshis and Toads have been added on both sides of the finish line, and the banners now have pictures of various items from the Mario Kart series, notably the Mushroom, Super Star, Fire Flower, Super Leaf, Heart, and Super Bell. The mast at the bow also appears to be taller. Much like other course remakes in this game, every instance of 3D artwork is replaced with 2D artwork, such as the Princess Daisy logo on the side of the cruise and the Daisy artwork inside the pool.
The course also appears as Daisy Cruiser R (reversed), Daisy Cruiser T (with ramps) and Daisy Cruiser R/T (reversed with ramps); the former two debuted alongside the normal variant in the Ocean Tour, while the latter debuted in the Sunshine Tour. In the R variant, there is a glide ramp just before the pool which allows racers to glide onto and briefly drive along the top of the ship. In the T variant, there are no moving tables; instead, there are many motionless tables on the sides of the main path through the dining room. There are also two water geysers in the aquarium. In the R/T variant, the pool has two Jet Pipes.
Upon the course's debut in Mario Kart Tour, Nintendo issued an apology for a quirk regarding the gliding section in the R variant where players can be counted out-of-bounds after Jump Boosting off of one of the parasols on the left side, citing the design of the "in-game systems" as the reason, but did not fix the issue.

For this course's tour appearances, see List of GCN Daisy Cruiser tour appearances in Mario Kart Tour.

Select "show" to reveal the drivers, karts, and gliders for which GCN Daisy Cruiser and its variants are always favored or favorite courses. For instances in which additional drivers, karts, and gliders temporarily had this course and its variants as favored or favorite courses, see List of GCN Daisy Cruiser tour appearances in Mario Kart Tour.

Daisy Cruiser also reappears in Mario Kart 8 Deluxe as part of Wave 5 of the Booster Course Pass. It appears as the second course of the Feather Cup. The course retains its appearance from Mario Kart Tour, albeit with significant visual upgrades. Koopa Paratroopas have been added as spectators on the outside of the ship. Three Innertube Goombas were added in the pool area. The dining room lights are now lit up and the tables are now occupied by Yoshis, Toads, and Shy Guys. The tables now spin as they move. Some tables now serve as walls to reduce the width of the interior section. The Clampys in the aquarium have been repositioned, and the banners fly in the wind. The Item Boxes are positioned similarly to Mario Kart: Double Dash!! and move once again, unlike in Tour. The course's music rearrangement notably introduces new violin countermelodies throughout most of the song.
Internally, the course is referred to as "Cnsw_46", implying it may have originally been intended to be the second course of the Boomerang Cup.