Waluigi Stadium is the fourth and final race course of the Flower Cup in Mario Kart: Double Dash!!. It is Waluigi's home track of the game and bears a striking resemblance to the dirt track Wario Stadium from Mario Kart 64. Obstacles include Fire Chains, Fire Bars, and giant wooden Piranha Plants. It shares its music with Wario Colosseum. 
The course is surrounded by an audience consisting of Toads, Boos, Shy Guys, Hammer Bros., Snifits, Toadsworth, Donkey Kong Jr. and Birdos, the last of which only appears in Mario Kart Wii. The audience of the course responds to the player's actions, such as shouting/moaning if the player collides with an item or a fireball. This is the only course in Mario Kart: Double Dash!! to have a large audience made of 2-dimensional animated characters as opposed to 3-dimensional models.
Waluigi Stadium reappears in Mario Kart Wii as the fourth and final course of the Banana Cup, in Mario Kart 8 Deluxe as the third course of the Boomerang Cup in the Booster Course Pass, and in Mario Kart Tour starting from the 2023 Mario vs. Luigi Tour.

The track starts out just before a bump and a turn to the right. On top of the bump, there are Item Boxes for the player to grab. On the right turn after the bump is an overhang of a later part of the track, plus minor bumps that do not serve any purpose for the player. After the overhang is a turn to the right, which has a bump and Dash Panels on it. Panels give a speed boost to the vehicle to cross a fire ring with an item box in the center, if driven through correctly, avoiding the flames of the fire ring. After the fire ring is a U-turn to the right which leads to more Dash Panels and another fire ring with an item box in the center. The player can see the lower sections of the track, previously raced on when going over this ramp.
Passing after the second fire ring, racers take a loose curve to the left around a mud pond that heavily slows the player down, regardless of acceleration (Mario Kart Wii's case would be Off-road) of the vehicle. Item boxes are found on the curve of the track. After the large oil slick is a turn to the left, that leads to a straight and wide path. The path has cardboard cut-outs of Piranha Plants, leaping out of pipes slowly to slow down the player by bumping into them. Fire Bars lie in between each Piranha Plant, rotating their arms to burn a driver and to spin out of control. When a Chain Chomp or racers under the effect of a Super Star hits these Fire Bars, the Fire Bars will speed up for a brief amount of time. Item boxes are just found in the sides of the area.
After this part of the course is a turn that leads left and into another relatively straight section of the track. The straight road bends in a U-turn to the right, with another set of item boxes. The road twists at this part, and racers will slow down if they get caught running over the muddy zone to the left of the path if they don't have a speed boost item. The twisty path leads to a great jump over the hilly section, which leads to the last item box and a fire ring. Dash panels found over the ramp provide racers to cross the gap and reach the other side of the track that leads directly to the finish line; however, if racers fall into the gap, they will fall to a lower part of the track and Lakitu has to rescue them.

GCN Waluigi Stadium makes its classic course debut in Mario Kart Wii as the fourth and last course of the Banana Cup with some changes, such as the addition of half-pipes at the sides of the course for racers to perform tricks. The positions of the Piranha Plant pipes have been reversed (left to right, right to left) while the number of fireballs for each Fire Bar were extended to four. The tiny hill near the end of the course has also been removed alongside the number of Dash Panels at the ramp reduced from six to four. Also, the facial chevron signs that rock back and forth were changed from purple chevrons with a black background to light green chevrons with a translucent background. The audience also appears to be bigger than the original version. Unlike in the original, the crowd does not moan when the player gets hit by an item or hazard, but will still cheer when the player does a trick off a ramp. The members of the audience have also changed, and no longer include Snifits, Toadsworth, or Donkey Kong Jr., to match other courses with the same audience.

April 2009's first tournament required players to pass through 25 gates on Waluigi Stadium. The tournament was later repeated as the first tournament of April 2011, the first tournament of July 2012, and the second tournament of September 2013.

GCN Waluigi Stadium makes its handheld debut in Mario Kart 8 Deluxe as part of Wave 4 of the Booster Course Pass. It appears as the third course of the Boomerang Cup. It is the first course from Double Dash!! to appear in the Booster Course Pass. The course has received a major visual overhaul from its Mario Kart Wii appearance, now closely resembling Waluigi Stadium from Mario Kart Arcade GP 2.
The course is now set at night instead of sunset. The starting line has been redesigned to feature multiple multi-colored lights for the letters in the Mario Kart logo, and the frame of the starting banner is now a purple angular sign. The grandstands have been completely redesigned as well as the Jumbotron, which now includes a leaderboard, speakers, and a single Waluigi image. Diggers appear throughout the course on the dirt surrounding the road, which may be a reference to the Gold Mantis, one of Waluigi's karts from Mario Kart DS. A Waluigi Stadium sign replaces the Waluigi Kart sign of the original. The facial chevron signs that rock back and forth were removed and replaced with neon blue arrows. The Mecha Piranha Plants now have a more metallic look, as well as having visible mud and rust on them. They have also changed positions yet again, with the first two now being directly across from each other and diagonally jutting out into the air, while the last one retains its placement from Mario Kart Wii. They also no longer move their mouths. The Fire Bars have been reduced to two and are moved closer to one another. After the last Mecha Piranha Plant, a new raised route has been added, accessible via tricking off the half-pipe. Tires appear on the track as well. A new Dash Panel has been added to the left side of the course right before the final half-pipe. The ending section has changed noticeably, with a second new route in anti-gravity (this one having Spin Boost Pillars and ending in a Glide Ramp) being added above the rest of the course, accessible via the last half-pipe, while the original route is no longer as smooth of an S-turn, with the offroad being more jagged. Additionally, the Dash Panels before the final jump have been removed. Unlike Wii DK Summit, the minimap fills in the offroad on the course, like GBA Riverside Park. The icon for this course depicts the large jumbotron in a different place compared to where it is in the actual course.
GCN Waluigi Stadium is the only classic course from Mario Kart Wii that is not in the Lightning Cup to appear in Mario Kart 8 Deluxe.
Internally, in version 2.1.0, a very brief snippet of the course's music was present, referred to as "Cnsw_36", implying it may have originally been intended to be the second course of the Moon Cup.

GCN Waluigi Stadium returns in Mario Kart Tour starting from the 2023 Mario vs. Luigi Tour. It was the final GCN course added to the game. The course more closely resembles its original appearance compared to how it appeared in Mario Kart 8 Deluxe, with the time of day being reverted back to sunset opposed to night. The first jump now has three Dash Panels instead of two, and the Dash Panels before the final jump return after being absent in Mario Kart 8 Deluxe. The Mecha Piranha Plants have been reduced from three to two, but the remaining ones more closely match their positions seen in Mario Kart: Double Dash!! However, in Coin Rush, the three Mecha Piranha Plants are present with the same positions seen in Mario Kart: Double Dash!! The raised platforms accessible via the half-pipes in Mario Kart 8 Deluxe have been removed. The Dash Panel before the final half-pipe has been removed. Additionally, many red arrow signs have been added as well. As with all other Tour tracks with similar screens, the jumbotron no longer displays live footage of the race.
The course also appears as Waluigi Stadium R (reversed), Waluigi Stadium T (with ramps), and Waluigi Stadium R/T (reversed with ramps). In all three variants, there is a glide ramp. In the T variant, all Mecha Piranha Plants are removed and replaced with a regular Piranha Plant in a pipe. In the R/T variant, the Mecha Piranha Plants are placed vertically instead of horizontally.
The Mario Kart Tour rendition of GCN Waluigi Stadium is visible in an unused bannerMedia:MK8DX BCP Leak.jpg present in Mario Kart 8 Deluxe's files as of version 2.0.0, with the sunset setting intact. This instance predated any official announcement of GCN Waluigi Stadium being added to Mario Kart Tour.
Prior to the 3.4.0 update, there was a bug that caused the volume of the music to be too low.

For this course's tour appearances, see List of GCN Waluigi Stadium tour appearances in Mario Kart Tour.

Select "show" to reveal the drivers, karts, and gliders for which GCN Waluigi Stadium and its variants are always favored or favorite courses. For instances in which additional drivers, karts, and gliders temporarily had this course and its variants as favored or favorite courses, see List of GCN Waluigi Stadium tour appearances in Mario Kart Tour.