Cookie Land is a battle course in Mario Kart: Double Dash!! As its name implies, it is a giant sugar cookie. The course also returns as a retro battle course in Mario Kart Wii and Mario Kart Tour.

Cookie Land is a very simple circular course only broken up by some cookie icing. The icing serves as barriers, one of which is a circle in the very center of the map, and the other three are arcs that somewhat break up the course into an inner and outer ring. Besides the cookie that makes up the course, there are also several varieties of Yoshi Cookies in the background. 

Cookie Land returns in Mario Kart Wii. The course was made much bigger to accommodate 12 players, but it is still the smallest battle course in the game. It is also the only retro battle course to not have its music rearranged.

September 2009's first tournament required players to complete a GP race on a version of Cookie Land that has been turned into a race track: Players drive counterclockwise around the track, directed by a few sets of barriers. There are also four Item Boxes and two Goombas. Players have to drive five laps and compete against the four baby characters (Baby Mario, Baby Luigi, Baby Peach, and Baby Daisy). Vehicles were restricted to bikes only and the player starts at the back of the start grid from 5th place.

Cookie Land returns in Mario Kart Tour starting from the Battle Tour. The course retains its appearance and size from its Mario Kart: Double Dash!! iteration, albeit with updated graphics. The icing parts are now split into two, allowing players to drive in between them. Also, the teal and pink icings are now green and blue, respectively. The player can now perform Jump Boosts by landing on the icing parts using a Feather, as they now act akin to Mushroom Platforms, even jiggling in a similar manner. Mushroom boosts can also get the player on the outer drops of icing if used while driving into the longer side of the drops. Instead of using its original music, the course now uses SNES Battle Course 1's music from Mario Kart 8 Deluxe. However, its original song is still present in the files of Mario Kart Tour. Since the Animal Tour, the ground texture was slightly adjusted. This stage and GBA Battle Course 1 are the first battle courses to be implemented into Mario Kart Tour.

For this course's tour appearances, see List of GCN Cookie Land tour appearances in Mario Kart Tour.

The following are the drivers, karts, and gliders for which  is always a favored or favorite course. For instances in which additional drivers, karts, and gliders temporarily had this course as a favored or favorite course, see List of  tour appearances in Mario Kart Tour.