Geno (real name: ♡♪!? in the original or ♡♪！？ in the remake) is a warrior from the Star Road and one of Mario's partners in Super Mario RPG: Legend of the Seven Stars and its remake. He is sent by "a higher authority" to restore peace to Mario's world by inhabiting a wooden doll. During the events of Super Mario RPG, he teams up with Mario's team, which consists of Mario, Mallow, Princess Peach, and Bowser, and helps them out on their quest to defeat Smithy. In battle, he has high attack, but lower defense.
Geno was designed by Yuka Miyamoto and Hideo Minaba, with Kazuyuki Kurashima having provided concept work. Prior to the release of Super Mario RPG, Nintendo Power wrote that Geno was described by Square as "Pinocchio".

When the Smithy Gang launch their attack on Mario's world, Exor crashes into Bowser's Keep and occupies it. As Exor fell from the sky, he shattered the Star Road, and as a result, seven Star Pieces are scattered throughout the world, and wishes are unable to be granted. Because of this, Geno is sent to retrieve the Star Pieces and restore the power of wishes to the world.

Some time later, Rose Town is besieged by the Smithy Gang. Bowyer is launching arrows into the town and paralyzing people. Many people in Rose Town fear leaving their homes out of potentially being paralyzed by one of Bowyer's arrows.
During this time of crisis, Mario and Mallow arrive in Rose Town. The pair enters the Town Inn, and while inside, Mario sees a young boy named Gaz playing with his dolls of Mario, Peach, and Bowser. Gaz's mom asks Mario to play with her son, which he agrees to. Mario pretends to be Bowser, and Gaz pretends to be his favorite of the dolls, Geno. Gaz ends up playing too rough however, and activates Geno's "Super Star Shot". Instead of hitting the Bowser doll, the blast accidentally hits Mario, knocking him out.
That night, a single star being enters the Inn. Seeing the four dolls on the floor, the star decides to inhabit the Geno doll. Now possessing the doll, the star has problems with walking, and slams into the wall before leaving the inn. Later, Geno admits he chose that particular doll because it appeared to be the strongest of the four.
The next morning, Gaz tells his mom that he saw the living Geno walk into the Forest Maze. His mom does not believe this, while Mario goes and enters the woods to find the animated doll. Geno enters the forest to challenge Bowyer, and retrieve the Star Piece that Bowyer's minions had found. Mario and Mallow decide to help Geno, and together, the three defeat Bowyer and acquire the Star Piece.

After defeating Bowyer, Geno reveals to the heroes that he is a warrior from Star Road and that he has assumed the form of the Geno doll to fight the Smithy Gang. Additionally, he states that wishes can never come true again until all the Star Pieces are recovered. He also reveals his real name, ♡♪！？. However, this is impossible to pronounce, so the star warrior assumes the name of the doll: Geno. After explaining everything, Geno decides to join forces with Mario and Mallow to find the remaining Star Pieces.
Eventually, Mario, Mallow, Geno, Bowser, and Peach collect the remaining Star Pieces and defeat Smithy. With Smithy destroyed, Geno decides to leave the doll's wooden body, returning to the form of a star and bringing the Star Pieces to Star Road. Repairing the celestial road, the power of wishes return to the world. The lifeless Geno doll can be seen sitting behind Mario and company on Vista Hill while they witness Exor disintegrate.
Geno also has a clone version of himself that Belome can create during his fight in his temple at Land's End named "Geno Clone".

Geno's doll form makes a cameo in Mario & Luigi: Superstar Saga. He appears as the mechanical host of the Star 'Stache Smash arcade game in Little Fungitown, explaining the rules of the minigame. The end credits state that Geno is an intellectual property of Square Enix: "Regardless of the above-mentioned, the copyright of Character "Geno", reserved by SQUARE ENIX CO., LTD." However, he does not return in the remake, Mario & Luigi: Superstar Saga + Bowser's Minions, where text bubbles replace his role.

Director of the Super Smash Bros. series Masahiro Sakurai has stated that Geno was considered for an appearance in Super Smash Bros. Brawl, but was not followed up on for unexplained reasons.

Though not available as a fighter, a costume based on Geno was released as DLC for Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS and Super Smash Bros. for Wii U. Although the hat can be worn by any Mii Fighters, the costume is exclusive to Mii Gunners, with the Geno Beam arm cannon mounted on the right hand. The DLC was released during December 2015, alongside the Chocobo hat, Cloud Strife, and the Midgar stage. This is fitting as the character of Cloud is owned by Square Enix, who also developed Super Mario RPG, and owns the rights to Geno.
Nintendo also released a QR code for those who wish to have the exact Mii used in the costume's advertising.

Geno appears as a spirit in Super Smash Bros. Ultimate. He is also a selectable icon for use in the online modes. In his spirit battle, he is represented by Sheik armed with a Super Scope, and is joined by Mario, Peach, Bowser, and a gray Kirby, who represents Mallow. These five fighters represent the main cast of Super Mario RPG. His Mii Gunner costume from Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS and Super Smash Bros. for Wii U returns as DLC, and was released in December 2020, alongside a series of Final Fantasy-themed costumes, in parallel with Challenger Pack 8 which introduced Sephiroth.

Geno appears as a centric character in volume 50 and 51 of the Super Mario-kun manga. Geno is actually absent for the majority of the volumes, having been forced by Princess Peach to switch places with him and leaving him at her castle to take her place in the form of a disguise. It isn't until the battle against Smithy that he shows up again in the story.

Tetris 99 features an event with Super Mario RPG from November 9th, 11 PM PT to November 13th, 10:59 PM PT to promote the upcoming release of Super Mario RPG. The event includes a new theme for the game  which changes the music to themes from Super Mario RPG. It also features frog coins replacing the normal KO indicator and the tetriminos having stars emblazoned on them. Geno appears alongside Mario, Princess Peach, Bowser, and Mallow in the background.

Geno acts as a sage-like figure to Mario and his allies. Consequently, Geno offers the heroes advice about matters the others may not understand. For instance, after Mario and his allies liberate Bowser's Keep, Bowser decides to quit the team and return to the castle. However, Geno points out that until Smithy and his factory are destroyed, Bowser's Keep is still at risk. Thus Bowser decides to continue the fight.
Geno has a variety of attacks which use a mix of physical and energy projectiles. His regular attack involves shooting physical projectiles from his arms. His special attacks typically involve powerful energy blasts. Additionally, Geno is the fastest of Mario's allies.

Geno's personality is strongly based on his confidence and attitude. Geno has more of a defiant, heroic attitude. His eagerness to confront the villain may be due to his status as an authority figure from Star Road. He also tends to show more enthusiasm than any other party member.
Geno comes off as very powerful from his first appearance as a doll when Gaz attacks using Geno and accidentally hits Mario and knocks him out. However, when Geno tries to fight Bowyer, upon striking Bowyer says, "Strong you are, but stronger am I!" He also has access to the most powerful attack in the game, Geno Whirl, which deals 9,999 points of damage if timed right.
Although powerful, Geno is quite amiable, quick to make friends with Mario and Mallow. He has a strong sense of duty and responsibility, and his role on Star Road may be analogous to Mario's role in the Mushroom Kingdom. He even worries over the "ownership" of his physical form, and promises to return the body to the home from whence it came.

Geno is a very potent offensive character overall, having the highest speed of any party member (30), comparable attack stats to Bowser, and high magic attack stats and potent special moves primarily revolving around single and multiple enemy attacks. His one support move, Geno Boost, bolsters attack (and defense if timed properly) stats even further. When equipped with the Feather or Troopa Medal, Geno is the only character capable of defeating a Shy Ranger (provided Mario does not have the Super Suit + Attack Scarf combination). However, his HP growth begins to stall after level 20 and his special equipment is subpar at best, with his ultimate weapon, the Star Gun, not being as powerful as that of others, such as Mario's Lazy Shell, while his ultimate armor, the Star Cape is the second worst in the game, making him relatively weaker in both attack and defense power later in the game despite his high base stats. Still, Geno Boost and Geno Flash, one of the strongest special moves in the game that strikes all enemies, make Geno useful to have on any team. 

We recovered a Star Piece from the formidable Bowyer. I hate to leave Gaz behind, but I'll need this body so my allies and I can find the Star Pieces. With five left, there's a long way to go.   Geno

Geno's real name is different in the Japanese version of Super Mario RPG, using a one-time set of unpronounceable symbols derived from a fictional star language.