The ghosts are species from the Luigi's Mansion series and are the series' main enemies. Ghosts first appear in Luigi's Mansion and reprise their role in its Nintendo 3DS remake. The ghosts in the game are created by the ghost artist Vincent Van Gore after King Boo releases him from his portrait, along with the other portrait ghosts. Ghosts never appear in the direction Luigi is looking, which E. Gadd also mentions. Sucking up more than one ghost at a time will always give a heart, with the exception of Mr. Bones and the Garbage Can Ghost.
Different types of ghosts appear in Luigi's Mansion: Dark Moon, the sequel to Luigi's Mansion, and inhabit Evershade Valley. These ghosts are friendly, due the influence of the Dark Moon, and help Professor E. Gadd with his paranormal research. However, when King Boo destroys the Dark Moon, the ghosts turn against E. Gadd and go on a rampage, under King Boo's command. Luigi once again comes up behind them, catching them, defeats King Boo, and repairs the Dark Moon, making them friendly yet again.
In Luigi's Mansion 3, another set of different ghosts appear as Hellen Gravely's and King Boo's minions. They were part of E. Gadd's collection of ghosts along with King Boo before he was tricked by Hellen into coming to her hotel, trapping him and freeing them and King Boo. They initially are disguised as human employees of the Last Resort hotel when Luigi, Mario, Princess Peach, and three Toads arrive, although after all but Luigi were captured, they stopped using the disguises. Luigi, with Gooigi joining him, ultimately recaptured them. After the Last Resort Hotel was destroyed, the ghosts escaped from the containment field and were about to attack Luigi, only for King Boo's gem to mysteriously vanish and cause the ghosts to regain their senses, also being distraught over the destruction of the Last Resort before E. Gadd offered to help them rebuild. After the repairs were done, E. Gadd, Gooigi, and the ghosts bade Luigi, Mario, Princess Peach, and the Toads farewell.
Super Smash Bros. Brawl and Super Smash Bros. for Wii U each have an unlockable trophy of Ghosts from the first Luigi's Mansion, and it shows a Gold Ghost, a Purple Puncher, and a Blue Twirler. In both games, the trophy is unlocked at random, and Super Smash Bros. for Wii U's trophy was even slightly retextured from the Super Smash Bros. Brawl one. Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS, instead has an unlockable trophy of Ghosts from Luigi's Mansion: Dark Moon and depicts a Greenie, a Hider, a Gobber, and a Slammer.