Giant Spiked Balls (sometimes lowercase) are larger versions of Spike Balls. Like their smaller counterparts, Giant Spiked Balls can destroy blocks and even the smaller Spike Balls. They first appear in New Super Mario Bros.

Giant Spiked Balls debut in New Super Mario Bros., where they appear in various levels. Their first appearance in this game is the second castle.

Giant Spiked Balls return in New Super Mario Bros. Wii in World 8-2.
Near the end of the boss fight in World 8-Airship, Bowser Jr. uses Giant Spiked Balls with shorter spikes and active fuses that possess the ability to explode, and must be used against him.

Giant spiked balls also appear in Super Mario 3D Land with a purple color.

In New Super Mario Bros. 2, these spiked balls appear in two sizes. In World Mushroom-A and World 4-Castle, large spiked balls appear, which are closer to the size of giant spiked balls in other games. The giant spiked balls in World Mushroom-Castle are even larger. The former has an equivalent in World 4-1.

Although giant spiked balls do not reappear in New Super Mario Bros. U, New Super Luigi U, or New Super Mario Bros. U Deluxe, Mega Grrrols appear which serve the same purpose.

In Super Mario Run, Bowser's Koopa Clown Car can spit out giant spiked balls. The giant spiked balls have the ability to break certain platforms.

Giant spiked balls appear as a course element as of version 2.0 of Super Mario Maker 2. Unlike regular Spike Balls, they destroy any breakable blocks in their path. They appear as a projectile thrown by Mega Spikes and as placeable course element. Since they did not appear in Super Mario Bros., Super Mario Bros. 3, Super Mario World, and Super Mario 3D World, new sprites are made for them.

Giant Spiked Balls return in Super Mario Bros. Wonder, only appearing during the Wonder Effects of  Rolling-Ball Hall and The Final Battle! Bowser's Rage Stage. This time, they appear golden with white spikes. Coming in contact with one results in an instant loss of a life. As shown in the latter, they are able to break blocks. Even larger ones appear exclusively in the former, being large enough to break Rock Blocks with ease.

Giant spiked balls appear in Mario Party 9 in the minigame Tumble Temple alongside regular Spiked Balls. A giant version of Spiked Balls with longer spikes also appears in Spike Strike, where the player must use a hammer to send them back at the large Spike.

Giant Spiked Balls also appeared in Mario & Luigi: Paper Jam, where they are used by Spikes. They are only slightly larger than regular Spiked Balls. A Giant Spiked Ball can only be countered with a hammer strike.

In Mario & Luigi: Bowser's Inside Story + Bowser Jr.'s Journey, a giant spiked ball appears in Bowser Jr.'s Journey mode, when the player has 2, 3, or 4 Spikes by way of a super attack.