Giant Eggs are objects used by Yoshis in the Yoshi's Island series. They are much larger than a normal Yoshi Egg. The Giant Egg can only be made if a Yoshi swallows a Fat Guy.

Giant Eggs make their first appearance in Super Mario World 2: Yoshi's Island. They can defeat all on-screen enemies merely from the shock-wave they give off when thrown (similar to hitting a POW Block), though Yoshi will get dizzy when he is holding one that he is ready to throw (much like if he had touched or swallowed a Fuzzy). When Yoshi has three or more Giant Eggs at his disposal, all of the Fat Guys will disappear; likewise for two Giant Eggs and the big Shy Guys during the Froggy boss fight. However, they reappear once Yoshi has less Giant Eggs. Giant Eggs are usually colored green, but in the final battle of the game, Giant Eggs are red, slightly smaller, and carried by balloons on the stage; Yoshi must grab these and aim them at Big Baby Bowser's face. Big Baby Bowser will be defeated once successfully hit with a few Giant Eggs.

Giant Eggs also appeared later Yoshi's Island DS, where they are used to fight Bowser. In this game, Yoshi has to throw Giant Eggs at Bowser in order to flip him over on his back to make Bowser vulnerable to a Ground Pound. Bowser could also grab the Giant Eggs and throw them at Yoshi. Kamek turns Bowser giant-sized for the last phase of the battle, which is very similar to Super Mario World 2: Yoshi's Island. This time, four Giant Eggs are brought on the stage by one balloon. Each of the four Yoshis get one – then as all of the Yoshis aim the eggs at Bowser and throw them at him, Bowser will be defeated after a few hits. Additionally, when a Super Star is used, Yoshi turns into a Giant Egg and follows Superstar Mario.

Although Giant Eggs do not appear in Yoshi's New Island, there are Mega Eggdozers, which are larger than Giant Eggs.

Outside the Yoshi's Island series, a Giant Egg appears in Mario Kart 64, Mario Kart 8, Mario Kart 8 Deluxe, and Mario Kart Tour (referred to in this game as a big egg) at the end of Yoshi Valley before the last bridge. It spins and moves in a circle; in Mario Kart 8 and later games, a few coins follow it. If racers get too close to the egg, it can flatten them in Mario Kart 64 or flip out them in later games. The big egg can be taken out by hitting it with a Super Horn or by driving into it while invincible or under the effects of a Mega Mushroom. In Mario Kart Tour, players earn bonus points for taking out the big egg.
In Mario Kart DS and Mario Kart Wii, Yoshi Falls has a large egg in the middle as decoration.

In Yoshi's Story, Giant Eggs come in black and white and are hidden in a few stages. In this game, they cannot be thrown; rather, completing a stage with one in tow permanently unlocks the respective-colored Yoshi, after which that color of Giant Egg stops appearing. They do not appear in Trial Mode.