Glide Ramps (also referred to as glider ramps or gliding pads) are a type of ramp that first appeared in Mario Kart 7. Glide Ramps appear in various courses and function similarly to regular ramps, except that when driven over they automatically deploy the Kart's Glider, which then enables the player to glide over sections of the course. Players are still able to perform Tricks off of these ramps to gain a speed boost when gliding. The panels on the ramps are cyan with scrolling white arrows on them to differentiate them from Dash Panels. From Mario Kart 7 onward, Barrel Cannons that appear in Mario Kart courses use a Glide Ramp as the method of propulsion instead of the Barrel Cannon's blast. Glide Ramps are also commonly used as shortcuts.

Glide Ramps are introduced in Mario Kart 7 as part of the gliding function, where they are used in numerous courses throughout the game. As well as being used in all of the new courses except for Rosalina's Ice World, Glide Ramps are also used in most of the retro courses, replacing longer jumps and cannons and also to replace or provide alternative routes for some sections of the courses. Some sections are also entirely replaced with a Glide Ramp, such as the bouncing net at the end of Wii Maple Treeway. The only retro courses that do not use Glide Ramps are N64 Luigi Raceway, GCN Daisy Cruiser, and SNES Rainbow Road. Although most Glide Ramps remain in the same position, Toad Circuit and GBA Bowser Castle 1 have a Glide Ramp that emerges from the ground after an amount of time, usually after the first lap. Additionally, the Bouncing Note section in Music Park has a pair of ramps that change position every so often, leaving just a lower regular white ramp when they change height and side. The Glide Ramp will flash before changing, but can still be glided from when it is flashing. As well as the ramps, one of the Mushroom Trampolines in Wii Mushroom Gorge has now been recolored blue and functions the same way as a ramp, as once the player bounces off it, the Glider will be deployed and the player can glide over the remainder of the cave instead of bouncing over more mushrooms.

Glide Ramps reappear in Mario Kart Arcade GP DX, where they appear and function like in Mario Kart 7. The ramps are used in the courses Peach Castle, Kingdom Way, NAMCO Circuit, Bananan Labyrinth, DK Jungle, Aerial Road, Sky Arena, and Bowser's Castle. As Mario Kart Arcade GP VR reuses course elements from its predecessor, Glide Ramps also appear in this game.

Glide Ramps reappear in Mario Kart 8 and Mario Kart 8 Deluxe, where they serve the same purpose as in Mario Kart 7. They are integrated into all of the new courses except Toad Harbor, Excitebike Arena, Dragon Driftway, and Mute City. They use the same design from Mario Kart 7, except in Twisted Mansion, where they use a cyan Dash Panel design. The ramps are also included in much of the retro courses, such as replacing the original boosted ramp in N64 Royal Raceway and being on the dash panel ramp truck in N64 Toad's Turnpike. The rising Glide Ramp returns in 3DS Toad Circuit, Merry Mountain, and Tour Rome Avanti, and the special lowering twin Glide Ramps return in 3DS Music Park and DS Tick-Tock Clock; the lowered Glide Ramp becomes black in this game. In courses where the layout changes between laps, Glide Ramps can appear in a lap where it was not previously; this happens in Tour Paris Promenade, Tour Sydney Sprint, Tour Berlin Byways, DS Peach Gardens, and Tour Singapore Speedway.

Glide Ramps appear once again in Mario Kart Tour, where they serve the same function as their previous appearances. Just like in Mario Kart 7, Mario Kart 8 and Mario Kart 8 Deluxe, Glide Ramps were implemented into retro tracks that previously lacked them, with the most prominent example being found on the remake of N64 Choco Mountain, where the section before the boulders was replaced with a giant pit where racers must glide over to get past it. Like normal ramps, players automatically trick off of them once they are driven over. The rising Glide Ramp also appears in 3DS Toad Circuit, Berlin Byways 2, London Loop 3, the R/T variant of 3DS Rosalina's Ice World, and the R variant of GCN Waluigi Stadium. In some courses, they can lower in addition to rising, like the twin Glide Ramps from Music Park from Mario Kart 7.

The numbers indicate how many Glide Ramps are present in the course. A dash (–) indicates that the course cannot appear as a classic course in a previous game, due to it being present as a new course in its respective game.

In Mario Kart Tour, every course as four variants (normal, R, T, and R/T) that can add or remove Glide Ramps. A blank spot indicates that that variant of the course has not been released as of the latest tour.