The Golden Dash Mushroom, commonly known simply as the Golden Mushroom and originally localized as the Super Mushroom, is a more powerful counterpart to the Dash Mushroom found primarily in the  Mario Kart series.

In Mario Kart 64, the Super Mushroom appears simply as a yellow-capped mushroom, though its icon also shows a glow behind it. It gives the player an endless amount of speed boosts for a limited time. Compared to later games, it is fairly common, as it can be obtained from second to eighth place. However, it will generally only appear for someone in second place when the lead racer is significantly farther ahead.

In Mario Kart: Double Dash!!, the Golden Mushroom is entirely gold and wears a crown decorated with red gems, which it keeps in all later appearances. Here, it is the Special item of Toad and Toadette, with Petey Piranha and King Boo also being able to use it. This makes it the only item that can only be used by unlockable characters, as well as the only one not mentioned in the manual.

The Golden Mushroom makes an appearance in Mario Kart Arcade GP under the name Miracle Mushroom. It is one of Toad's special items, and it grants the user invincibility, as well as the ability to knock over any rival karts they run into, for five seconds. The Miracle Mushroom is functionally identical to the Star. A variant of the item known as the Miracle Mushroom+ exists. This variant extends the duration of the invincibility.

In Mario Kart DS, the Super Mushroom takes its appearance from Mario Kart: Double Dash!! but can be used by any character. It can be obtained in 6th or lower.

In Mario Kart Wii, the Golden Mushroom's design is tweaked to follow the modern design of Mushrooms first used for the Mushroom Cup's emblem in Mario Kart DS. It can be obtained in 6th or lower. The best chance of getting this item is in 10th place, with a 30 percent (12 out of 40) chance of getting it in said position. Up to two Golden Mushrooms can be in play at a time.

In Mario Kart 7, the Golden Mushroom can be obtained in 5th or lower. The British English version of this game is the first time the name "Golden Dash Mushroom" is used.

In Mario Kart 8, the Golden Mushroom has the same role as before. As with other items, its probability of appearing is now dependent on the racer's physical distance behind the frontrunner, with increasing likelihood the further behind they are. In the Mario Kart 8 Deluxe – Booster Course Pass, it appears as the emblem of the Golden Dash Cup.

In the Mario & Luigi series, images of Golden Mushrooms are commonly used as decorations in Peach's Castle, especially in the throne room.

Golden Mushrooms have a variety of appearances in later installments of the Mario Party series. In Mario Party 10, Golden Mushrooms appear in the minigame Movin' Mushrooms, where they are worth three points. In Mario Party: Island Tour, Star Rush, The Top 100 and in Super Mario Party, the Golden Dash Mushroom is a usable item that lets the player add five spaces to their roll. In Mario Party: Star Rush, Golden Dash Mushrooms appear in Conveyor Meltdown, where they must be sorted alongside normal Mushrooms.

In Mario vs. Donkey Kong: Tipping Stars, Golden Mushroom can be seen as emblems on several banners in the background of Swirling Courtyard.

Golden Dash Mushrooms appear as items in the 100m Plus event in the Nintendo 3DS version of Mario & Sonic at the Rio 2016 Olympic Games. In this event, the mushrooms grow and shrink continuously, and provide greater speed boosts when the larger mushrooms are collected.

The Golden Dash Mushroom is an Ace-class support spirit in Super Smash Bros. Ultimate. The spirit uses the item's artwork from Mario Kart 8. The Golden Dash Mushroom makes its user temporarily giant when starting a battle. The spirit was originally only obtainable during the "Oh Yeah! Mario Time!" spirit event that ran from December 27, 2018 to January 1, 2019, but was added into the version 2.0.0 update. The spirit's puppet fighter is a gold Mii Brawler fought on the Figure-8 Circuit stage.

While no Golden Mushrooms appear in Paper Mario: The Origami King, the Mario Kart item is mentioned as the top speed for the Boot Car in its introduction.

Graphics for a Super Mushroom exist in Mario Kart: Super Circuit, but are unused.

The Golden Dash Mushroom makes a cameo appearance in the Wii U version of Tekken Tag Tournament 2 as part of its exclusive content.