Gold Goombas (or Golden Goombas) are a golden variant of Goomba debuting in Super Mario RPG: Legend of the Seven Stars and appearing sporadically in the Mario Party games. In these games, Gold Goombas are found in minigames as rarer counterparts to regular Goombas, being worth three points rather than just one. Their distinction from normal Goombas varies in other appearances.

In Super Mario RPG: Legend of the Seven Stars, gold Goombas appear in the Goomba-thumping game found in the Pipe Vault. They are worth three points, compared to Goombas which are worth one and Spikeys which cause Mario to lose a point. However, they are both rarer and faster than regular Goombas, only appearing for a short amount of time during the course of the minigame. One of them also appears as a statue in Garro's studio.

Gold Goombas are non-playable characters in Mario Party 5. They appear in the minigame Mario Can-Can, where one may pop out of a Goomba can.

Golden Goombas are non-playable characters in Mario Party 6. They appear in the minigame Trap Ease Artist being worth three points, like in the previous game. Said minigame, and therefore Golden Goombas, return in Mario Party: The Top 100 and Mario Party Superstars.

Gold Goombas are non-playable characters in Mario Party 7. They appear in Royal Rumpus, granting the player three points when defeated.

Gold Goombas are non-playable characters in Mario Party DS. They appear in Goomba Wrangler, where they are once again worth three points, while regular Goombas only give one point.

Gold Goombas are non-playable characters in Mario Party: Island Tour. They appear in the minigame Ka-Goomba!, retaining their value of three points.

In Super Mario Party, Goomba turns into a Gold Goomba after using a Golden Drink.

Gold Goombas make a return in Super Mario Party Jamboree, appearing in Goomba Lagoon after the Goomba-shaped volcano erupts. A Gold Goomba also appears at the Gold Shop event in Rainbow Galleria.

Gold Goombas also appear in New Super Mario Bros. 2. However, they are simply regular Goombas after Mario or Luigi touch a Gold Ring. The player will get 5 coins for each enemy defeated. The same applies to other gold enemies (this does not include consecutive jumps on enemies or using the Gold Flower). Goomba Towers and Paragoombas can also become Gold Goombas.

In Super Mario Run, Gold Goombas appeared during "Mega events". They were found in World Tour in certain levels at a time (indicated by a Gold Goomba icon on the level selection screen), with stages containing anywhere from one to five Gold Goombas (the later stages feature more Gold Goombas than the earlier ones). The player received 30 bonus coins at the end of the level for every Gold Goomba stomped, as well as a stamp on their stamp card, which was given to players as part of the event. Different versions of Mega events, known as Gold Goomba Lite events, were also ran for a shorter period of time, in which an individual had an easier chance to get certain in-game rewards than before.
The Mega event has four stamp cards with 20 stamps spots each, and the Gold Goomba Lite event has four stamp cards with 5 stamp spots each (with the fourth card having 10 stamp spots instead of 5).
Gold Goombas were also featured in Toad Rally during an event running from December 20, 2023 to March 15, 2024 promoting Super Mario Bros. Wonder, featuring four stamp cards with 20 stamps spots each similarly to Mega events. The Gold Goombas in this event behaved differently from those in the previous events, as they replaced all coins not inside blocks during a Coin Rush activated by a Wonder Flower. These Gold Goombas were seen doing the shocked expression used for normal Goombas in Super Mario Bros. Wonder, and the player could defeat them by touching them. All Gold Goombas were turned back into coins at the end of Coin Rush. Obtaining a Super Star did not transform the coins into Gold Goombas; however, if a star was activated during a Coin Rush, then the coins would remain transformed until the Super Star ran out.

Gold Goombas appear in Puzzle & Dragons: Super Mario Bros. Edition as very rare enemies, encountered only in unlockable courses (excluding ★World 2-4). Gold Goombas are Light-attribute enemies and are much stronger and more durable than regular Goombas. 
As enemies, Gold Goombas first use their Skill Super Boost to raise the attack power of all enemies for 99 turns. They then attack regularly by charging and slamming into the player (making metallic clanking noises). When defeated, they drop Grand Light Blocks of themselves or Star Gems. When defeated with a 10+ Combo attack, they are guaranteed to drop Star Gems. Gold Goombas award the player with a significant amount of XP compared to other enemies, but drop a regular amount of coins.
As teammates, Gold Goombas have above average stats, with an HP rating of 5/6, an ATK rating of 4/6, and a RCV rating of 4/6. Its Super Boost Skill changes one Orb on the Orb field to a Super Orb, and its Awoken Skill, Time Boost, increases the time the player can move Orbs by a short amount. Gold Goombas give HP+ bonuses to other teammates when being depowered, and use Gold Mushrooms and Grand Gold Mushrooms to increase their Skill levels.
With the digital update to version 2.0, a Gold Goomba can be transformed into two other forms: a Gold 2-Goomba Tower by using four Goomba Coins, and a Gold 3-Goomba Tower by using six more Goomba Coins.

In Mario & Luigi: Superstar Saga + Bowser's Minions, a gold variant of Captain Goomba is unlocked whenever the Goomba amiibo is scanned in the Minion Quest: The Search for Bowser mode.