The Goo-Goo Buggy (or the Mario Buggy, or Mario's Pram) is a kart in the Mario Kart series. It resembles a blue stroller with a Smiley Flower at the back of the kart and its emblem on each side. Its name comes from the onomatopoeia a baby makes.

The Goo-Goo Buggy first appears in Mario Kart: Double Dash!! as the signature kart of Baby Mario. It is a lightweight kart available when the game is first started. It has very low top speed, but very high acceleration and good handling. However, this kart is also rather light, and therefore is easily knocked around by heavier karts. The Goo-Goo Buggy has the same speed and acceleration as the Toadette Kart in terms of stars, and the two karts are also tied in weight, meaning that they cannot push each other around. However, the two karts are easily pushed around by the Para-Wing (another kart with the same in-game speed and acceleration, but is slightly heavier). Statistically, the Goo-Goo Buggy is tied alongside the Toadette Kart and Para-Wing for having the lowest top speed, and the highest acceleration in the game.

The Goo-Goo Buggy returns in Mario Kart Tour starting from the 2022 Cat Tour. A pink variant called the Goo-Goo Pink was introduced in the same tour, a black variant called the Goo-Goo Black was introduced in the 2022 Bowser Tour, and a gold variant called the Goo-Goo Gold was introduced in the Vacation Tour. Its reskin, the Rattle Buggy, also has a variant in the game called the Purple Rattle Buggy. It is the signature kart of Baby Mario (Koala) and uses the Turbo Yoshi's tires. The Smiley Flower emblems have been replaced by the driver's emblem and the handlebar has been bent over the platform, making it unusable. The Goo-Goo Buggy increases the duration of Rocket Start boosts and the number of points earned for performing a Rocket Start.
As of the Battle Tour, the Goo-Goo Buggy can be obtained from regular tour pipes, including the All-Clear Pipe. However, it has not been added to the Daily Selects lineup. The following table shows the kart's special availability by tour.

The Goo-Goo Buggy is an Advanced-class Attack-type spirit in Super Smash Bros. Ultimate. It depicts the artwork of Baby Mario and Baby Luigi driving on it. It is unlocked as a reward for completing the challenge of KOing three fighters in under a minute in one match. When characters equip the spirit, it reduces their weight.