Goombas, initially called Little Goombas, are one of the major species of the Super Mario franchise. Since their first game appearance in Super Mario Bros., they have become the most iconic and common enemies in the entire Super Mario franchise followed by Koopa Troopas, appearing in the vast majority of games. They are usually the first enemy the player encounters. They are small, brown, mushroom-like creatures with two feet, tan stems, and no arms or legs. Goombas are weak and are not much of a threat to Mario or Luigi, since a single stomp usually defeats them, although a number of different Goomba variants have emerged that are usually stronger in some way, and even regular Goombas occasionally drop hints of being much stronger and more competent than their appearances suggest, as in the case of Captain Goomba.
The Goombas, as a collective race, used to be allied with the Mushroom Kingdom. However, most of the Goombas turned traitorous and joined Bowser's Minions. Since Super Mario RPG: Legend of the Seven Stars, however, Goombas not allied with Bowser have appeared. Some non-hostile Goombas, such as the inhabitants of Goomba Village, live in the Mushroom Kingdom, while others simply reside in other locations such as Monstro Town and Rogueport.

The Goomba was the last enemy created during the development process of Super Mario Bros. despite being the first encountered. During development, the only basic enemy was the Koopa Troopa. However, playtesters had stated that the Koopa Troopa was too tricky of an enemy to have as the first one. Using this, the developers decided to create an enemy that could be defeated with just a single stomp. The Goomba itself was created with the appearance of a shiitake mushroom. Since the enemy was created toward the end of the development cycle, though, hardly any bytes remained on the cartridge. Therefore, to give the enemy moving animations, the developers reused and flipped the image, making it appear to be walking.

Little Goombas first appear in Super Mario Bros. - referred to as that in that game's manual alone - and their original homeland is stated to be in the Mushroom Kingdom, which they share with the mushroom retainers. The two races lived in peace. However, at an unknown point in time, Little Goombas betrayed their neighbors and joined the Koopa Troop. In Super Mario Bros., Little Goombas are the most common enemy. In the game, they appear in almost every level (except underwater levels and most castles). They can be defeated by jumping on them. They can also be defeated by shooting fireballs, Koopa Shells, by hitting a block from below if they are on top of it, or by touching it while using a Starman. Because of this, Little Goombas have the distinction of having two death animations: one for being squished from a stomp, and one for falling upside-down off-screen from the other aforementioned methods.
Due to the limited color palette of the NES, Little Goombas in underground levels are colored teal, and in castle levels, they are colored gray; in the Super Mario All-Stars remake of the game, the Goombas in castle levels are grayish brown. Later games introduce numerous variants, including teal, subterranean Gloombas, introduced in Paper Mario, which play the same role in a Super Paper Mario level meant to represent Super Mario Bros.'s World 1-2.
If Mario or Luigi defeats the fake Bowser of World 1's castle with fireballs, it turns into its true form, a Little Goomba, before falling into the lava.
If the player completes the game and plays it again in the Hard Mode, all Little Goombas are replaced with Buzzy Beetles. In VS. Super Mario Bros., in order to prevent players from potentially performing the infinite 1-Up trick, some levels featuring either Koopas or Buzzy Beetles descending from staircases have those enemies replaced with Goombas instead.
Little Goombas flip between two sprites, giving them the appearance of walking. They also seem to lack a mouth, possibly due to it being too difficult to render in sprite form as a result of the graphical limitations of the time. They are the only enemies in this game to have two different "defeated" poses: one showing it being flattened after being stomped by Mario/Luigi, and the other simply being flipped upside-down. This has stuck in later games.

Goombas reappear in Super Mario Bros.: The Lost Levels with the same role and appearance as in its predecessor. Although Buzzy Beetles are more prominent in the game, large numbers of Goombas also appear in packs of three or four. Goombas are also present in underwater levels and are gray with black eyebrows and feet in the Family Computer Disk System version due to sharing Blooper's palette, while in the Super Mario All-Stars version they are standard brown. These Goombas cannot be stomped and can only be defeated with fireballs. As a result, in underwater levels, Goombas' death animations only depict them having their sprites flipped upside down. In the Super Mario All-Stars version, much like in Hard Mode of the original, all Goombas in Worlds A-D are replaced with Buzzy Beetles. In All Night Nippon: Super Mario Bros., all Goombas are replaced with Okapi, but otherwise still act the same.

Goombas, also referred to as Little Goombas, reappear in Super Mario Bros. 3, where they can be found in every world except Dark Land. These Goombas are unchanged in behavior from their appearances in Super Mario Bros. and Super Mario Bros.: The Lost Levels. This game introduces the concept of Goomba variants such as Para-Goombas, winged Goombas that either fly and drop Micro-Goombas if it is tan or simply hop if it is red, and Grand Goombas, which are bigger but they can be defeated the same way. The game marks the first time the Goomba's sprites are drawn with mouths. Red Goombas only appear after forcing a red Para-Goomba to lose its wings, and it has no discerning characteristics besides its red coloring.
The Goombas of World 5-3 use a device known as the Goomba's Shoe (also known as the Kuribo's Shoe) to mimic the jumping abilities of Mario and Luigi. When in the green shoe, a Kuribo's Goomba can jump towards Mario and Luigi instead of walking into them. If Mario or Luigi defeats the Goomba by hitting a block underneath it, if it is standing on a block, the boot is left behind. Mario or Luigi can ride Goomba's Shoes, allowing him to stomp to spiked and unstompable enemies and walk on spikes and Muncher patches. When Mario or Luigi gets to the goal, the Goomba's Shoe disappears.

While the common Goombas do not appear in the game Super Mario Land, a species known as the Goombo do. They lack the usual eyebrows, but act very similar to Goombas in other Super Mario titles.

Normal Goombas were originally going to appear in Super Mario World, but they were replaced by a different species (later known as Galoombas). These chestnut-shaped Goombas are rounder than the traditional mushroom-shaped Goombas. They are knocked upside-down when jumped on instead of being defeated and are able to be picked up when in this state. In the Game Boy Advance version of the game, Super Mario World: Super Mario Advance 2, after the player completes the Special Zone, these Goombas are now colored yellow and wear sunglasses.

Goombas reappear in Super Mario Land 2: 6 Golden Coins, as well as returning Para-Goombas. In addition, a new Boo-like ghost variant known as Ghost Goomba is introduced, which appears in Pumpkin Zone. Another variety of Goombas known as Aqua Goombas are also prominently featured in the final stage of the Turtle Zone. A Goomba-like enemy, Masked Ghoul, is confirmed to be a masked Goomba in the game's Kodansha adaptation.

Goombas make their first 3D appearance in Super Mario 64. They are still enemies, though behave slightly differently than before: instead of walking back and forth in a straight path, Goombas patrol a small area in a circular motion, and when one spots Mario, it charges toward him. If the Goomba hits Mario, he loses one fraction of health, or a fraction and a half if he is without his cap. Goombas can be defeated by either jumping on them, punching them, kicking them, or by throwing an object at them, such as a Bob-omb. When defeated, they leave behind Yellow Coins. Goombas often appear in pairs or groups of three. Grand Goombas and Goombettes also make an appearance, behaving like regular ones.
In Super Mario 64 DS, Goombas sometimes wear Mario's cap, Luigi's cap, or Wario's cap, and if one spots a player character, it runs away from the player instead of charging towards him. After the player defeats it, wearing the cap transforms the current character into whoever normally wears that cap. Goombas also seem to appear in almost every course now, unlike in the original version, where they appear only in select areas, and can be eaten by Yoshi in this game. In certain Silver Star missions, a Goomba may contain a Silver Star, which it drops when defeated. They also assist Goomboss during his fight in Goomboss Battle.

Goombas appear in New Super Mario Bros. They act as they do in Super Mario Bros. Paragoombas and Mini Goombas also reappear, but they act differently. They are among the only enemies in the game to be represented by prerendered two-dimensional sprites rather than models.
A giant Goomba called the Mega Goomba serves as a boss in World 4-Castle. Unlike the regular Goombas in the game, the Mega Goomba is represented by prerendered models.

Several types of Goombas appear in Super Mario Galaxy. Normal Goombas act similar to the ones in Super Mario 64. When they see the player, they attempt to cause damage by running into them. Goombas can be defeated by jumping on them, releasing a coin. Spinning one or shooting a Star Bit at one flips it down, stunning it. At that point, the player can run into it to kick it and defeat it, releasing three Star Bits. Goombas appear in most galaxies, but in Space Junk Galaxy, the Goombas on the Yoshi Planet do not drop coins when they are defeated. In addition to the regular Goombas, Micro Goombas appear as well. They appear in some galaxies in Super Mario Galaxy, while they appear uncommonly in the game's successor, Super Mario Galaxy 2. They are weaker than other Goombas and can be defeated with one spin, rather than being flipped, and they always leave behind a coin when defeated. However, it is possible to get three Star Bits from one of these small Goombas by kicking them while they are stunned. It is only possible to stun them by hitting the vibrating poles in Gateway Galaxy or by firing a Star Bit at them. A Big Goomba also appears in the Gateway Galaxy. It is still very weak but it has a chance to defend itself by jumping and hitting him if it sees him.
Several species resembling Goombas appear in this game as well. Electrogoombas and Goombeetles are common enemies, while Pumpkinhead Goombas appear in Ghostly Galaxy. The normal Goombas are the most recurring enemies in the game. They appear in: Good Egg Galaxy, Space Junk Galaxy, Rolling Green Galaxy, Battlerock Galaxy, Hurry-Scurry Galaxy, Beach Bowl Galaxy, Buoy Base Galaxy, Bowser Jr.'s Airship Armada, Gusty Garden Galaxy, Freezeflame Galaxy, Dusty Dune Galaxy, Bowser's Dark Matter Plant, Gold Leaf Galaxy, Bowser Jr.'s Lava Reactor, Gateway Galaxy, Deep Dark Galaxy, Dreadnought Galaxy, and Rolling Gizmo Galaxy.

Goombas reappear in the game New Super Mario Bros. Wii, acting the same as the ones from New Super Mario Bros. Giant Goombas also reappear and split into two Hefty Goombas when stomped, which in turn split into two regular-sized Goombas. The Goomba, Hefty Goomba, and Giant Goomba can be encountered in the Enemy Course of World 1. In this Enemy Course, it can be either eight Goombas, four Hefty Goombas, or two Giant Goombas. Also, during the boss fight with Magikoopa, his magic can transform the platforms into Goombas, in addition to a variety of other enemies. A single Goomba also appears during the true final battle in Bowser's Castle.
In the seventh level of World 9, there are Goombas inside spiked chestnuts encountered called Prickly Goombas. These chestnuts prevent them from being stomped on, but the Goombas can break out of their shells if hit by a fireball from Fire Mario or any fire-spitting enemies such as Venus Fire Traps.

Goombas reappear in Super Mario Galaxy 2, serving the same roles as they did in Super Mario Galaxy, and can now turn around if Mario is close to them. Mini Goombas, Giant Goombas, Goombeetles, and Jack O'Goombas reappear as well. Octoombas, formerly known as Electrogoombas, now attack by spitting rocks. Paragoombas and Big Paragoombas, which did not appear in the first game, also appear in this game, the latter making their debut. Chance Cubes also transform into Goombas if the player gets a Bowser emblem on them.
The lighter brown and rounder versions of Goombas also return, albeit not being as common as they were in the previous game, and they give out one Star Bit each instead of a coin when they are defeated with a spin, although they still give out one coin when jumped on. In addition, stunning them with a Star Bit and then kicking them still only yields one Star Bit as opposed to three as in the first game.
In the Boulder Bowl Galaxy mission C'mere, Goomba, a gold Gearmo asks Mario to find a Goomba and bring it to them.

Goombas in Super Mario 3D Land have similar behavior to those from the 3D Super Mario platforming games. Goomba boards make their appearance as well, along with a new species called Tail Goombas. It is possible to acquire a Super Leaf after defeating a Tail Goomba. One takes the form of a Tail Bowser. A gold version of the Tail Goomba was planned to appear in the game, but it was removed in the final version.
Goomba Tower are multiple stacked Goombas similar to Shy Stacks, Dangos, and AckStacks. However, they still attack as individual Goombas: by simply charging in the player's direction.

Goombas reappear in the Nintendo 3DS game, New Super Mario Bros. 2, with two new variants. They maintain their appearance from New Super Mario Bros. Wii. Goombas become Gold Goombas when Mario goes through a Gold Ring. The Goomba then produces coins when defeated. Another new Goomba called the Bone Goomba appears, which mainly appear in towers and castles and act the same as the Goomba.
Goomba Towers return from Super Mario 3D Land and like a regular Goomba, Goomba Towers can be turned into a stack of Gold Goombas. Jumping on a Gold Goomba would yield 5 coins, with each consecutive jump adding more coins to other golden enemies. Blue Goombas also appear and they appear in the World Flower and World 6 Ghost Houses and in the Super Mario Bros. World 1-2 remake area of the Gold Classics Pack.

Goombas reappear in New Super Mario Bros. U. They maintain their appearance from New Super Mario Bros. Wii, but also have a lighter colored, rounded variety with black stems on their heads named Goombrats. Hefty Goombas, Big Goombas, and Prickly Goombas reappear as well. At every vocal riff in the music, Goombas do a jump.
Balloon-bound Goombas also appear in the Sparkling Waters secret stage Skyward Stalk.  They are basic enemies attached to balloons, acting similarly to the Parachute Galoombas of Super Mario World except floating from the opposite direction. Balloon Goombas appear only in the Sparkling Waters stage Skyward Stalk, where six of them are found. They float on balloons straight upwards from the bottom of the screen. When a Goomba's balloon pops, it begins walking like a normal Goomba. Mario can jump off the balloons for extra height.

Goombas also appear in Super Mario 3D World, behaving the same as they do in other 3D Super Mario platformers. Mini Goombas also appear, as well as Galoombas (which replaced Goombas in Super Mario World). Additionally, a new type of Goomba, which is based around the Cat transformation, also appears; these Goombas attack by leaping up and pouncing the player. Additionally, some Goombas ride in Ice Skates (which can be used if the rider is defeated) or are sleeping in spiked floaties. A Goomba Mask also appears as an item; wearing it causes any Goombas near the player to mistake them for their kind and not attack them.
Goombas also reappear in the Nintendo Switch port version of the original Super Mario 3D World game, Super Mario 3D World + Bowser's Fury, appearing in both modes of the game (although not in the same form). In the Bowser's Fury campaign, their Cat counterparts gain a new variation that is completely identical to standard Goombas: they walk around rather than "cat-walk" on hills and pounce, chase Mario upon seeing him, are brown instead of yellow, and are slightly less "furrier" than the Cat Goombas from Super Mario 3D World.

Goombas reappear in Super Mario Maker and Super Mario Maker for Nintendo 3DS as enemies that can be placed in the course by the player, acting similarly to their appearance in 2D platformers. Like most other enemies, Goombas can be stacked, which in this case forms a Goomba Tower. Paragoombas also return, and can be created by dragging Wings onto a Goomba. They function similarly to their appearance in Super Mario Bros. 3.
Both Goombas and Paragoombas can be enlarged with the use of the Super Mushroom, becoming Big Goombas and Big Paragoombas respectively. Additionally, the Super Mario World style replaces Goombas with Galoombas, which can be picked up and thrown like in the original Super Mario World. The Goomba's Shoe returns from Super Mario Bros. 3, and has been added to the original Super Mario Bros.
Goombas now display the ability to swim in underwater sections, rapidly chasing after Mario when he comes near.
Unlike Super Mario Bros., Goombas do not change colors in the underground and castle themes and instead stay brown.
There is also a Goomba costume in the Super Mario Bros. style, turning Mario into a red Goomba.

Goombas are fairly common enemies in Super Mario Run, appearing in a handful of levels. They behave the same as in regular 2D Super Mario platformers and are one of the few enemies that the player can vault over. However, when the player taps the screen while vaulting over a Goomba, they can perform a vaulting jump, thus stomping on it, allowing them to jump higher.

Goombas reappear in Super Mario Odyssey, once again chasing after Mario like in previous 3D Super Mario platform games. When Mario takes control of a Goomba using Cappy, he can jump on other Goombas to create a stack, which can aid Mario in reaching high platforms and activating Goomba buttons. Additionally, Goombas do not slip on ice while being captured.
Goombas may wear different attire depending on the location. Before these Goombas are captured, their attire has to be taken off by hitting them once with Cappy; attacking them in any other way defeats them entirely, rendering them uncapturable. The following is a list of costumed Goombas that appear throughout the game.

As well, Goombas with no attire appear in the Cloud Kingdom, the Mushroom Kingdom, and the Darker Side. 8-bit Goombas are also found in 8-bit mural segments, behaving the same as in the 2D games. Mini Goombas and Paragoombas also appear in the game. Goombette, a pink female Goomba, can be found in the Sand Kingdom, the Lake Kingdom, the Wooded Kingdom, the Seaside Kingdom, the Luncheon Kingdom, and the Mushroom Kingdom, who grants Mario a Power Moon if he approaches her as a captured Goomba. In the Mushroom Kingdom during visits after the first, two Volbonans can be found debating whether Goombas are mushrooms or acorns.

Goombas return along with their variants, the Galoombas, Goombrats, Big Goombas, Paragoombas, and Shoe Goombas in Super Mario Maker 2, acting the same as they did in the previous game. In the Super Mario 3D World style, they chase after Mario upon seeing him as in the 3D games. The Goombud debuts in this game as the Super Mario World style alternative to the Goombrat, combining the Goombrat's aversion to ledges with the Galoomba's durability. Goombas can also be given Parachutes to use in all five styles, acting like Parabombs and Parachute Galoombas.

Goombas reappear in Super Mario Bros. 35, having the same appearance, role and characteristics as in the original Super Mario Bros.

Goombas reappear as recurring enemies in Super Mario Bros. Wonder, alongside several variants including Goombrats, Big Goombas, Hefty Goombas, Kodeka Kakibō, and Bone Goombas. They function largely the same as in previous 2D games, though in this game they will visually react to their surroundings. They will shift their eyes to look at a player if one is in front of them, and they visibly panic if they notice potential threats, including player-thrown fireballs, kicked shells, Gnawshers, and Maw-Maws. They will also make a biting pose when they damage a player, a reference to how Goombas in Super Mario Bros. were originally intended to attack the player by biting them. A few levels feature Goombas that are asleep on the ground. These Goombas will wake up when something is right in front of them or if the Goomba is touched by the player. Players touching these Goombas will not take damage, but instead knock the Goomba back, though it is able to deal damage again after waking up. In levels where Goombas can be trapped in one-block wide areas (best demonstrated on Pokipede Pass) they will stop pacing back and forth and instead watch the player from their hole. Goombas are affected by the Wonder Flower in Sproings in the Twilight Forest, which causes them to stretch beyond their normal size, and the Wonder Flower effect in Maw-Maw Mouthful and Petal Isles Special Way of the Goomba turns the players into Goombas.

In the Japanese anime movie Super Mario Bros.: Peach-hime Kyūshutsu Dai Sakusen!, two Goombas, who work for Bowser, appear throughout the film, attempting to halt Mario, Luigi, and Kibidango in their search for Princess Peach.
These two Goombas first appear shortly after Mario and Luigi start their quest and follow the Mario Bros. to a camp they have set up for a night's rest. Luigi, however, has grown hungry and is unable to sleep. The Goombas then trick Luigi by saying they knew where to find delicious mushrooms, and Luigi, desperate for food, follows them into a small clearing filled with strange, emotion-inducing mushrooms. Luigi (and Mario, who eventually finds his brother in the mushroom field) is eventually kidnapped by a colossal-sized Paratroopa.
The Goombas next appear right after Mario and Luigi have collected the Super Mushroom and have come to a fork in the road. Here the Goombas decide to give Mario and Luigi false directions and lead the brothers to a Piranha Plant-filled area.
The Goombas are seen next in a cave-like area where they leave a trail of coins for the Mario Bros. Mario and Luigi follow this trail and end up in a larger cave, although the Goombas roll a rock up against the entrance of this cave, locking the Mario Bros. within it.
One of the Goombas' last efforts in the film comes when Mario and Luigi have reached Bowser's Castle. They activate a complex platform system over lava (with the inclusion of Podoboos), explaining that Mario has to jump over it to escape. Unlike other depictions throughout the series, the Goombas grow small arms resembling mushroom spores in order to operate the system's controls. Their plans are foiled, though, when Luigi (who is at the time mining for coins) accidentally causes a huge flood through the castle, putting out the lava and safely carrying the Mario Brothers on. It is unknown what happens to the Goombas after the castle falls apart.

In The Super Mario Bros. Super Show!, Goombas are depicted as being weak soldiers in King Koopa's army. Compared to other enemies in the show, they accurately resemble the physical depiction of Goombas from the video games. The only episode of The Super Mario Bros. Super Show! where a Goomba has a speaking role is "Elvin Lives." Goombas change aliases depending on the plot, appearing as bikers, pirates, and zombies.

The continuation of the original cartoon series, The Adventures of Super Mario Bros. 3, retains Goombas and their status as weak yet loyal soldiers. Their winged variant, Paragoombas, appear more often.

Goombas appear in the live-action Super Mario Bros. movie. In it, they are portrayed as citizens of Dinohattan who have been de-evolved into slightly dim-witted but loyal members of President Koopa's army. They are properly introduced when Toad's character is arrested and sentenced to become a Goomba for singing Anti-Koopa songs. President Koopa showcases his abilities to de-evolve Dinohattanites with his Devo Chamber machine to Mario and Luigi, when Toad is turned into a Goomba. Mario and Luigi, enraged after having witnessed Toad's fate, push Koopa into the machine and attempt to de-evolve him before escaping out of the Devo Chamber. 
Throughout the film, Goombas appear as low-intelligence cronies responding to Koopa's commands. The kidnapped Brooklyn women, which includes Angelica, Daniella and Daisy, are held in a part of Koopa's Tower called "Goomba Barracks" for the majority of the film. It is implied that the Goombas in Koopa's Tower are permanent residents of the Goomba Barracks, as shown when Mario and Luigi escape from said tower, and they take one of the mattresses the Goombas sleep on to do so.
Various Goombas were later outfitted with Devolution Guns in preparation of invading Earth. The Goombas, however, often had a weakness for dancing; Mario and Luigi discover this when they are hiding in an elevator that they occupy. Mario and Luigi begin rocking the Goombas back and forth to the elevator music playing to distract them. The Goombas apparently started dancing some time afterwards, as Sergeant Simon tried to warn Koopa via Walkie Talkie about them dancing again while Koopa was trying to gloat to the Mario Bros. about trapping them. They begin to take a liking to dancing as evidenced by Toad later exploiting this to prevent the Goombas from following Koopa's order to shoot Mario after the dimensions become separated once again. After Koopa is successfully defeated, Goombas can be seen dancing in couples in Koopa Square.

The Super Mario Bros. film received a simplified manga adaptation titled Super Mario: Makai Teikoku no Megami. Goombas reprise their role as being lackeys of Koopa, that he creates by zapping citizens using his Devolution Gun. They are first introduced when an enraged Koopa is informed by Spike and Iggy that they did not successfully bring him back the meteorite piece. He zaps the two, de-evolving them into Goombas. 
Koopa proceeds to take to the streets of his kingdom, dragging Daisy along, and holding a megaphone on the other hand. He is lead by a Goomba driving a car, and a large crowd of Goombas following him, as he demands that Mario and Luigi turn over the meteorite piece over to him. After Koopa is hit with an exploding mushroom, he demands from his Goombas that they cleanse him off the fungus residue left behind by the blast. When the dimensions are briefly merged by the Goomba-fied Spike and Iggy, the Goombas begin de-evolving humans into chimpanzees. 

Goombas briefly appear in Super Mario Bros. & Friends: When I Grow Up, where they are literal computer "bugs" in the Computer Programmer career page.

Goombas make an appearance as one of the six falling objects in Yoshi. For the only time officially since Super Mario Bros., they are called "Little" Goombas in the instruction booklet, but not in the North American television commercial or on the back cover of the packaging. Their sprite in this game is similar to their sprite from Super Mario Land 2: 6 Golden Coins.

Goombas appear in Mario Ice Capades as minions of King Koopa. In the end, the Mario Bros. defeat them as well as their leader.

Goombas appear in the third chapter of Mario and the Incredible Rescue under the name Little Goombas. Three of them attack Mario, Luigi, and Toad in Kero Sewers, and after they defeat them, a larger group of them emerges, forcing the trio of heroes to run away.

Goombas appear in several issues of Nintendo Comics System, though they are scarcely seen, having seemingly been pushed aside by Shy Guys as the main troops of Bowser's army.

Goombas make a minor appearance in the German Club Nintendo comics. Two of them are seen in the story "Super Mario: Erholung? Nein, danke!" on the island of Koopabiza. They, along with many other people and creatures, try to get to the beach. One of them is wearing a swimming ring. Also, the Gumba Royal Hotel on Koopabiza is named after the German spelling of the Goomba species.

In Super Mario Adventures, one ordinary Goomba makes a minor cameo among the Super Mario World creatures sent to attack Princess Toadstool's Palace.

In Super Mario-kun, Goombas make several appearances, while not being in every volume.

Goombas appear in several of the Nintendo Adventure Books, starting with Leaping Lizards, where a pair appear to attack Luigi when he first arrives in the Mushroom Kingdom, only to be sent running after being stomped. Some later scurry out of the way as the heroes head to Mushroom Palace, and several are also among the crowds at the International Mushroom Games held three weeks later.
Luigi fights off several Goombas on his way to Wendy O. Koopa's secret camp in the Magma Pits in Koopa Capers, and a Goomba scientist named Dr. Sporis von Fungenstein appears as the main antagonist in Doors to Doom.
Some Goombas shrunken by Magikoopa are sent into Yoshi's body after Mario in Unjust Desserts; if Mario smashes a Yellow Shell while inside Yoshi, it causes tremors that cause some Goombas and assorted other shrunken enemies to go careening around the dinosaur's innards.

Four varieties of Goomba appear in the game Hotel Mario. They aid Bowser in his attempt to transform the Mushroom Kingdom into his personal resort. Goombas guard the seven hotels set up by Bowser's Koopalings. In the game, Goombas attempt to prevent Mario from shutting down the seven Koopa Hotels. To do this, Mario has to shut all the doors in each hotel. Regular Goombas oppose his efforts by slowly walking to closed doors and opening them (as well as generally just getting in Mario's way). Paragoombas (called Flying Goombas in this game) also appear. Two new types of Goomba, the Bellhop Goomba and the Rhinestone Goomba, make their only appearance in this game.

In the Yoshi's Island series, Goombas first appear in Super Mario World 2: Yoshi's Island, then in its Game Boy Advance version, and in Yoshi's New Island. Goombas aimlessly walk in one direction, like in the Super Mario series. However, a Goomba can jump off a ledge, but before doing so, they become idle briefly while wiggling their eyebrows. More noticeably, stomping on a Goomba flattens it but does not defeat it. A flattened Goomba can still walk and damage Yoshi on contact, but can also carry Yoshi if he stands on them. After some time, the Goomba "pops" back into shape. In Yoshi's New Island, while a Goomba is flattened, it does not jump off a ledge and cannot damage Yoshi. They also always revert to their standard shape immediately after turning around. Goombas can be defeated with an egg or enemy toss, a Ground Pound attack, or by eating and turning them into eggs.
In all three appearances, Goombas only appear in one level, much unlike their appearances in the Super Mario series. In Super Mario World 2: Yoshi's Island, Goombas only appear in GO! GO! MARIO!!, while in Yoshi's New Island, they only appear in Spin-Lift Drift. In the latter game, Goombas are often encountered in chains of enemies and can be defeated with Koopa Shells to gain a combo and extra lives.

In Mario Net Quest, a Goomba using its Super Mario 64 design is one of the obstacles that can pop out of the floor tiles. The player loses 1000 points if they click on it.

Goombas are among the weakest members of the Koopa Troop in Super Mario RPG: Legend of the Seven Stars and its Nintendo Switch remake. However, they are more powerful than the Terrapin. In the game, many Goombas are seen patrolling Mushroom Way, the area between Bowser's Keep and Mushroom Kingdom. Toad himself is captured by a group of Goombas while he is on his way to the Mushroom Kingdom. Other Goombas not loyal to Bowser's Minions reside in Bandit's Way. Goombas are also found later in the Pipe Vault, an optional area near Rose Town. Other Goombas live in the caves of the Midas River and are seen trying to catch the river's fish. Pro Goombas, a more powerful variant, reside in Bowser's Keep. In battle, Goombas attack enemies by biting. They can also shoot sharp thorns to cause 50% more damage than usual. Goombas are fairly weak, and they can often be destroyed by a simple Timed Hit. A Goomba's bite attack can be blocked by defending right after the mushroom performed a somersault. The damage of a Goomba's thorn can be blunted by defending right before the projectile hits the party member. Additionally, Goombas typically fight in groups of two to three (either with other Goombas or stronger monsters). When defeated, Goombas often yield HP MAX! Flowers to Mario and his party.
After Bowser's Minions are expelled from Bowser's Keep by the Smithy Gang, Bowser himself attempts to reassemble the remains of his Minions in order to retake his castle. In Rose Way, he has a regrouped faction of Goombas lead by the alluring Goomhilde, but by the time the army reaches Moleville, many Goomba units have abandoned Bowser. By the time Bowser reaches Booster Tower, all of Bowser's army (Goomhilde and her Goombas) have deserted him. However, at the tower, Bowser decides to join forces with Mario, knowing that with Mario's strength, he can get his castle back. Eventually, Bowser, Mario, Princess Peach, Mallow, and Geno find their way to Monstro Town. While in the town for reformed enemies, Bowser runs into the former head of his Goombas, who has set up shop in the village. Goomhilde apologizes for deserting Bowser's Minions but offers to sell Bowser powerful weapons and armor in return. She is assisted by her three "little ones", the Triplets (others, not related to this Goomba, appear in the Sunken Ship). Another Goomba, named Goo, appears as part of one of Dr. Topper's puzzles. Eventually, Bowser, with the help of Mario and his friends, manages to expel the Smithy Gang and defeat their leader, Smithy. With his keep returned, many former soldiers (including many Goombas) return to King Bowser and his Minions, and many of them help rebuild Bowser's Keep to its former glory.

Goombas are a common sight in the various Mario Party titles. Often, they appear in the background of minigames or they host minigames themselves. Goombas get their biggest roles in Mario Party 4, where one is one of the hosts, and in Super Mario Party, where one is a playable character.

In Mario Party, a Goomba hosts the Flower Lottery in Peach's Birthday Cake. When the player reaches Goomba, they must pay 10 coins (or all their coins if they have 10 or less) to play a game called the Flower Lottery. There are four seeds of different colors (red, blue, yellow and green) and the player must bloom one (after blooming a whole set, another set appears). Three of them have Toad's face imprinted inside them: if the player finds one, the Goomba remarks sadly that the player "lost" and take the Star's path. However, if the player chooses the seed with Bowser's face, the Goomba declares the player has "won" and has the player proceed to Bowser's cake. In Crazy Cutter, a Goomba is one of the few shapes that players have to drill.

In Mario Party 2, a Goomba hosts all the duel and battle minigames. This Goomba presumably lives in a barracks shaped like a Goomba, complete with a small chimney and door. This barracks appears on all boards, usually far off outside the main area of the map. Given the Goomba's mannerisms, he appears to be a veteran of Bowser's Koopa Troop, although he does not directly serve Bowser in the game. When a player lands on a Battle Space, summons an opponent with a Dueling Glove, or lands on the same spot as another player within the last 5 turns in a game, the Goomba descends on a parachute to initiate the event. After the minigame, the Goomba gives the winner and second-place runner-up coins from his moneybag and gives a single coin to either the third or fourth placing players if the whole amount of coins taken cannot be evenly divided by two. Other than that, Goombas do not play a very major role in this game. A Goomba also makes an appearance in Mystery Land in the tail of an airplane.

Mario Party 3 also features Goombas. They still command Duel Minigames, and Luigi's default partner in Duel mode is a Goomba as well. The Goomba has an attack stat of 2, an HP stat of 1, and a salary of 2 coins per turn. Their attack involves jumping into the air and kicking. Goombas make an appearance in Curtain Call, where the player has to memorize the order of them and other enemies on a stage. In Slot Synch, if players get a Goomba icon, they get one point. In Game Guy's Roulette, a Goomba icon is one of the six icons the player can choose to guess where the shell goes; it occupies 4 slots and multiplies the player's coins by 8 if picked.

In Mario Party 4, Goomba appears as one of the hosts of the Party Cube, along with Toad, Boo, Shy Guy and Koopa Troopa. He wears a glittery pink top hat and vest, and hosts both Goomba's Greedy Gala and the mini-game room. In the mini-games, Goombas appear in Long Claw of the Law as an outlaw, GOOOOOOOAL!! as a crowd member, and Goomba's Chip Flip in Story Mode, as the character being fought against. A Goomba is also the referee in the Beach Volley Folly minigame.
Additionally, Mario Party 4 was the first appearance of the current interpretation of the Goombas' character design.

The Goomba Engine and the Goomba-Trio Engine are two of the many engines the player can purchase for a machine in Super Duel Mode. Typically, the engine offers acceleration and speed in exchange for control. The Goomba Tires are fairly fast and they boast good acceleration, but other abilities are average. The Goomba Capsule, if landed on, makes the player swap coins with another randomly chosen opponent. They can be used on a player for five coins.
Goombas feature prominently in a minigame called Hotel Goomba, where they serve as obstacles that the player must punch to get through. A Goomba is a 90-feet/30-metres marker in Triple Jump. Goombas appear as part of the background in Will Flower, Fight Cards, and Random Ride. They also feature prominently in Mathletes as the crowd and the host of the minigame. Players direct the movement of a Goomba or Paragoomba robot using slots in Quilt for Speed. In Clock Stoppers, a Goomba is one of the three characters that appear when a team gets the clock hands matching the center one. Goombas appear as one of the contents of a can in Mario Can-Can. In Panic Pinball, Goombas appear on the top of the slot. When they are flattened by a pinball, they start the slots. Also, in Beach Volleyball, the Goomba is a referee, much like in Beach Volley Folly.

The Goomba Orb makes a reappearance in Mario Party 6, but its function is different. If a player lands on another player's Goomba Orb space, the opponent must determine how many coins they have to give to the player by rolling a dice block. Goombas appear in the background in Thirsty Gulch. They are one of the enemies featured in Odd Card Out, where players must guess which card is different from the other two. They also appear as part of the crowd in that minigame. Players have to take pictures with the most Goombas in Freeze Frame. In Trap Ease Artist, players capture Goombas, some of which are gold, to earn points. Goombas appear in the background in Sunday Drivers, Stage Fright, and Dunk Bros. In Word Herd, the lone player must direct Goombas away from the other three attacking players. They appear in clean windows during the day in Clean Team. Two Goombas host Control Shtick. Goomba-shaped asteroids appear in Mass Meteor. The player has to rescue a Goomba in Lab Brats. On the main menu, two Goombas run around if the player says "Goomba" into the mic.

In Mario Party Advance, a Goomba appears at Goomba House in Shroom City. According to his description, he is a fan of dancing and is "considerate and caring". He serves as a tutorial of sorts, explaining that a bunch of Minigames and Gaddgets were scattered across Shroom City, and that all of its residents have one of them. He also says that by helping them out, one of these minigames or Gaddgets are rewarded to the player. He then asks for help himself, and accepting his quest leads him to ask for a ticket from the Train Station. After giving him the ticket, he happily rewards the Egg Roll Gaddget. Though he is saddened by his inability to help out with collecting everything, he gives out his luck to the player and says that he hopes to see them soon.
Goombas also appear in the minigame Floor It!, where the player must direct them to the correct floor. A Goomba serves as the referee for the minigame Volleybomb.

The Goomba Orb does not appear in this game. However, Goombas host certain board events in Pyramid Park and Bowser's Enchanted Inferno, and figures depicting them in their outfits on those boards can be bought from the Duty-free Shop. A Goomba appears in the background in Big Dripper, where it is being chased by bees. Goombas appear in the background in Kart Wheeled, Dart Attack, Weight for It, and Light Speed. One hosts the minigame Clock Watchers. They appear as one type of card in Cardinal Rule. Players have to ground-pound Goombas, one of which is a Gold Goomba, in Royal Rumpus, but the Gold Goomba is worth more points and is more difficult to stomp. Goombas are one of the pictures players have to match in Spin Off.

Goombas have a board of their own, Goomba's Booty Boardwalk. A Grand Goomba named Captain Goomba is the goal in this board. Other Goombas such as pirate Goombas either hinder or help the player. Goombas appear in the background in Chump Rope, Swing Kings, Blazing Lassos, and Fruit Picker. Players have to shoot Goombas with paint in Paint Misbehavin' to win. In Lob to Rob, players hit Mushroom icons to gain points, while Goomba pictures subtract points, Goombas chase the loser at the end of the minigame. Goombas help the player make a basket in Settle It in Court. They appear as one of the nine rescue-able enemies in Specter Inspector. A Goomba is one of the racers in Moped Mayhem.

In Mario Party DS, the Goombas take a large role in various minigames that occurred during the event. One of the minigames they appear in is Goomba Wrangler, where they are used as points. The players must capture them by circling them using the stylus to gain points. Goombas (referred to as Brown Goombas in the instructions) are worth one point and move slowly when the minigame starts. Golden Goombas are worth three points and move faster; they appear later during the minigame. More Goombas arrive in this very spot from the staircases as the time goes by. However, they can be deducted by circling a Bob-omb, resulting in them being knocked out from the player's container.
In the minigame Soccer Survival, a large Goomba is the goalie and shoots soccer balls at the players. The object of the game is to avoid the soccer balls that the Goomba kicks at the players.
Goombas also appear in another minigame Call of the Goomba, where they are lured by the players; the more that are lured in, the more points the player earns. They appear in the middle of the field, and the players are on the edges. The Goombas can be lured by the players by using the music box to match the original music as close as possible. The closer the player is to the speed of the original song, the more likely the Goombas go to the player. Once a Goomba is lured in, they cannot return to the center field.
In the minigame Plush Crush, the Goomba appears as a plush that uses one space during the minigame. The plush can be carried by a player's mechanical grabber. It can be used to try to block the solo player's paths or to defeat the player by dropping it on them.
In another minigame Double Vision, Goombas occasionally appear as one of the four possible trace drawings for the two players on each team to complete. The two players have to work together to trace the creature, and all four players have a different color for them to trace in certain parts of this drawing.
In the minigame Shorty Scorers, wooden Goombas appear as a goalkeeper at both of the goals. They automatically move at the left and the right side, blocking the ball while the players try to get a goal.

In Mario Party 9, Goombas play a small role, being seen mostly in minigames. One such minigame is Goomba Bowling, where the player must toss a red Koopa Shell across a bridge to hit the Goombas. They also appear in Goomba Spotting and Goomba Village, the former involving counting the number of Goombas that pass by the player, and the latter involving trying to guess which Toad House contains the most Goombas. The Goomba also has its own constellation that can be bought in the museum, named "Ground Soldier." In Toad Road, random Goombas jump, looking at the vehicle.

Goombas reappear in Mario Party: Island Tour, in the minigame Git Along, Goomba, as obstacles that the player must lasso. They also appear as tiles in both of the minigames Match Faker and Tap Dash, in the minigame Starring Artist as one of the many constellations, and in a bubble in the minigame Spin the Bubble. They also appear in the AR Card Minigame Ka-Goomba!.

Goombas return for a handful of minigames in Mario Party 10, generally appearing alongside the similar Galoomba and Goombrat in minigames where the player has to differentiate between the three in a certain way, namely Goomba Gallop and Goomba Gotcha.

In Mario Party: Star Rush, Goombas primarily appear in the minigame Goomba Guess, where the player must memorize their arrangement on a grid-like structure. They also appear as obstacles in the minigame Mega Goomba's Bad Dream, in which they move horizontally and occasionally trail the player closest to them, deducting one point from each player they come in contact with. Goomba-like cake structures also appear throughout much of the World 3 boards.

A Goomba appears for the first time in the series as a playable character in Super Mario Party, reusing the Goombas' vocal effects from previous games. Goomba gains a special Dice Block of his own: the Goomba Dice Block. Goomba appears alongside Bowser, Bowser Jr., and their other minions in the opening scene, intent on becoming the Super Star of the party. Non-playable Goombas also appear in Chestnut Forest, the second area of the Challenge Road mode.

Goombas reprise their roles from previous Mario Party games in Mario Party Superstars, including in Peach's Birthday Cake and in various minigames. In Peach's Birthday Cake, however, Lakitu replaces Goomba when planting Piranha Plant seeds in the cake. A Goomba target replaces the Toad target in Archer-ival.

Goomba returns in Super Mario Party Jamboree and reprises its playable character role from Super Mario Party.

Goombas have a minor role in Super Smash Bros. Melee. Very rarely, a Goomba emerges from a Party Ball or a Crate, instead of an item. The Goomba then walks around the stage, damaging fighters until being defeated. Goombas are also featured prominently in the first level of Adventure Mode, the Mushroom Kingdom. As in the traditional Super Mario games, Goombas in this game can be defeated by any stomp or simple attack. If a Goomba is stomped on, the "stomp" sound effect from Super Mario All-Stars is heard. A Goomba trophy can also be collected in the game by completing Event Match #14: Trophy Tussle 1, the battle taking place on a giant Goomba trophy.
The Goomba's design in Melee has a brown head yellow stem, similar to its early artwork and from Super Mario 64.
A Goomba was a requested character for inclusion in this game.

Goombas appear in Super Smash Bros. Brawl. They play another small role as in the previous game. They try to get in the players' way by bumping into them, similarly to their purpose in most Super Mario games. They attack by charging at fighters. Most of these Goombas work for Bowser, and they help him steal the Banana Hoard, but some aid Tabuu in defense of The Great Maze. Giant Goombas, who are bigger, stronger versions of Goombas also make an appearance in the Subspace Emissary. A Goomba also appears in the form of a trophy.

Goombas appear as enemies in the Smash Run mode exclusive to Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS. They attack by charging into the player and can be defeated by attacking them or with a single stomp. Big Goombas also once again appear as enemies in this mode. In both Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS and Super Smash Bros. for Wii U, a Goomba appears as a trophy, while the latter features Masterpieces based on both Super Mario Bros. and Super Mario Bros.: The Lost Levels, in which Goombas appear.

A Goomba appears in Super Smash Bros. Ultimate as a Novice-class Neutral-type primary spirit. It has two support slots and also grants the user a slight increase in the damage dealt with foot attacks. The spirit can be encountered in The Light Realm of World of Light. In the spirit battle, the player faces five tiny Donkey Kongs on the Battlefield form of the Mushroom Kingdom stage. A Goomba also appears on the River Survival spirit and is represented by Kirby in the battle.

Goombas appear as a part of the Koopa Troop in the original Paper Mario. In his initial appearance, the Goomba King (later named Goomboss) leads some Goombas, Spiked Goombas and Paragoombas that reside along Goomba Road, the pathway between Goomba Village and Toad Town. His two henchmen, the Red & Blue Goomba Bros., appear in the game as well as a miniboss, and later accompany him in his boss fight. In the Toad Town Tunnels, Mario encounters Gloombas, navy blue Goombas variants that live underground, and are modeled after the Underground versions of Goombas from the original Super Mario Bros. Lastly, Hyper Goombas, green-colored Goombas similar to the Gu Goombas, are first seen in this game, along the trail of Gusty Gulch. These powerful Goombas can charge their attack power.
The regular brown Goombas in Paper Mario behave similarly to their counterparts in Super Mario 64. They patrol a small area, and upon seeing Mario, they can charge at him. In battle, Goombas attack by using the "Headbonk" technique. They jump in the air, then dive into Mario, bonking their head against him. This attack can be blocked by defending just as the Goomba's head touches Mario. If he is struck by the attack, Mario takes one HP of damage. At the beginning of the game, it requires two stomps or two Hammer strikes to defeat a Goomba (as Goombas only have two HP). However, after Mario learns how to use Action Commands, he only needs one timed attack to defeat one of them. Other variants of Goombas, such as the Spiked Goombas, Paragoombas, Gloombas, and Hyper Goombas, have different stats and occasionally different attacks.
Although standard Goombas are normally fought towards the beginning of the game, one Goomba can be fought in Chapter 4. During the Intermission after Chapter 3, Bowser asks Princess Peach what Mario fears most. One of Peach's choices is "A Goomba", and if she picks this, Kammy Koopa warps a Goomba to Shy Guy's Toy Box. Although Kammy expresses doubt that the Goomba will scare Mario away, she leaves the Goomba in charge of defending a Treasure chest. When Mario eventually arrives, the Goomba reluctantly chooses to fight Mario.
Despite the majority presence of Goombas loyal to the Koopa Troop, Paper Mario notably features the first community of peaceful Goombas, within Goomba Village. It is the family of Goombas (composed of Goompa, Gooma, Goompapa, Goomama, Goombaria, and Goombario) living in peaceful Goomba Village, that first discovered Mario unconscious after his initial defeat from Bowser. These Goombas nurse Mario back to full strength and provides him with a Hammer to fight the Koopa Troop. The family also allows Mario to take Goomnuts from their village; these nuts can be used by Mario to recover his FP. Goombario, a young Goomba and personal admirer of Mario, even joins the hero on his adventure. His Tattle ability is valuable, as he provides hints on how to defeat certain enemies. In addition, Goompa gifts Mario his first Badge, and accompanies Mario for a brief moment upon giving him the hammer.

Mario runs into a number of Goombas in Paper Mario: The Thousand-Year Door. These Goombas live in a town known as Rogueport. Many of these Goombas are independent thieves, bandits, crooks, cheats, and "cleaners". These ones wear green or other colored hats, similar to the hat Link wears. Although not the best of company, these Goombas from Rogueport do not attack Mario. However, the Goombas that live in Rogueport Underground, Petal Meadows or in Riverside Station are very aggressive. Goombas behave just as their Paper Mario counterparts but are not as much of a threat, since Mario can perform Action Commands from the beginning of the game. They also appear as enemies in Bowser's platformer levels, where they run away if they spot Bowser. However, Bowser can still take damage from them upon contact. All these Goomba species featured previously in Paper Mario also return in this game.
Although a large number of either aggressive or simply seedy Goombas appear in the game, The Thousand-Year Door features two Goombas that aid Mario in his adventure. His first partner to do so is Goombella, a female college student from the University of Goom, a school for Goombas. She actually joins Mario on his quest to find the legendary treasure hidden beneath the town of Rogueport (as well as rescue Princess Peach, who has been captured by the X-Nauts). Her Goomba teacher from Goomba University, Professor Frankly, also helps Mario by interpreting the Magical Map, allowing him to find the next Crystal Star and continue his journey. As members of the Audience, Goombas have no unique behavior, but will typically throw damaging items at Mario.
In the game's Nintendo Switch remake, fake cardboard Goombas named Goomboards appear as training targets when Mario practices with the Battle Master.

Goombas appear in the game Super Paper Mario. In this adventure, Goombas are the first enemies to be battled. They are slightly less common than the Squiglets. Goombas also appear in the Flipside Pit of 100 Trials in rooms 2, 5, 14, and 46. Their HP is lowered to 1 in this game, but attack and defense stay the same from previous Paper Mario titles. Some of the Goombas in this game have the ability to Flip, just like Mario. This game also introduces Headbonk Goombas, which are throwbacks to the previous two Paper Mario games, as the Goombas' main attack is the Headbonk, and Dark Goombas, the dark versions of Goombas that appear in the Flopside Pit of 100 Trials. An unnamed Goomba, and another named Gary, appear after Chapter 2, helping Luigi find a way out of Castle Bleck. When they reach a dead-end, Gary is brainwashed, while the unnamed Goomba willingly joins Count Bleck's army. They then hold Luigi so that he can be brainwashed into Mr. L.

Goombas reappear in the game Paper Mario: Sticker Star for the Nintendo 3DS, but their appearance have been updated to match contemporary Super Mario games as opposed to the first three Paper Mario games whose appearances were closer to ones from Super Mario World 2: Yoshi's Island; their feet are now brown instead of red, their eyebrows are no longer as thick as in the previous Paper Mario games, and they are a darker brown. However, as shown in early builds of this game, they were first seen in their intial Paper Mario appearance.
In this game, regular Goombas are stronger and have more HP than their previous appearances, and are seen in Worlds 1, 2, 3, and 6, making them one of the most common enemies. Goombas can now turn into Paper-Cone Goombas, pointed Goombas that resemble paper airplanes and even fly toward Mario, and a 2-Fold Goomba. Goomba Wheel, Mural Goombas, and Shiny Goombas also debut in the game as well. Like in the first two Paper Mario games, the Goomba's only attack is by Headbonking Mario. If a Goomba's attack misses, it rolls over. Some Goombas fight alone, but they do aid Koopa Troopas, Buzzy Beetles, Spinies, Shy Guys, and Snifits. Some Goombas also hide in bushes and try to ambush the player by jumping out of the bush.
A trio of Goombas are fought in Decalburg to demonstrate the sticker mechanic. These same Goombas also guard the first Comet Piece in the game. The Megasparkle Goomba, a Goomba who went insane from a Royal Sticker, serves as the first major boss of the game. There are also two Goombas that assist Kamek during his battle in Water's Edge Way.
Goombas can be beaten with a First Strike without engaging in combat with them once the player has one Royal Sticker.

Goombas are recurring enemies in Paper Mario: Color Splash, although they are less common than Shy Guys in this game (in fact, the very first battle Mario has is against Shy Guys). They have the same appearance they had back in Paper Mario: Sticker Star. If Mario's hammer is powerful enough, Goombas can be defeated out of battle with a First Strike in order to not enter into a fight. Goombas also appear as NPCs in some levels such as The Golden Coliseum and the Sunset Express. A Goomba is the first-round opponent in Roshambo Temple #1. Allied Goombas attack the closest enemy with a Headbonk, which is a jump attack dealing 6 damage. It can send enemies into shells and ground flying enemies, but fails against enemies with spikes.
Goomba Wheels return in Sacred Forest, but they are called "Small Goomba Wheels" as the level is tiny due to Kamek's magic. One Paper-Cone Goomba returns in Kiwano Temple. Small Goombas, Small Goomba Gangs, Mega Goombas, Paragoombas, and Accordion Goombas also appear.

Goombas return in Paper Mario: The Origami King. Regular Goombas appear as supporting characters, while origami Goombas appear as enemies in a variety of areas. In battle, Goombas attack with a Headbonk move, as well as other moves which Goombas con perform if there is more than one of them, such as Group Headbonk, in which multiple Goombas can Headbonk Mario at the same time; Wave Headbonk, where multiple Goombas will form a line and Headbonk each other in a domino effect, which hit Mario for how many Goombas are doing the attack, with the last one in the line doing a regular Headbonk; and Tower Attack (which is an attack many enemies can use), where multiple Goombas can form a tower by standing on each other's heads, with the Goomba at the top Headbonking Mario, and the amount of damage depends on how many Goombas are performing the attack. If Mario blocks while having any Guard Plus accessories equipped, the Goombas' Headbonk move deal no damage. Large Paper Macho Goombas also appear as enemies. Paragoombas, Bone Goombas, and Galoomba variants reappear.
When Mario lands in the dungeon of Peach's Castle, he meets a Goomba who claims he had never met Mario or a Toad before. However, this Goomba is later turned into a Folded Soldier and is the first one Mario must face on his adventure. On the path to Toad Town, Mario rescues a group of regular Goombas from Origami Goombas, who decide to hide in a house in Toad Town for the rest of the game. In Shangri-Spa, Goombas are among the minions being forced to do labor work to repay the damage from Bowser's Castle destroying the banquet hall.

Goombas have appeared as obstacles in various games of the Mario Kart series. They behave consistently throughout the series, simply waddling in place and moving slightly left and right on the track and causing a player to spin out from driving into them. However, their size varies between appearances, and Mario Kart DS renders them as 2D sprites. In most games, if a Goomba is hit by an item, it drops a Mushroom. In Mario Kart: Double Dash!!, Goombas appear in Mario Circuit, waddling in place right before the finish line. In Mario Kart DS, Goombas appear in Mario Circuit and in certain missions, such as the race against Goomboss, who spawns two or three Goombas every few seconds while moving. In Mario Kart Wii, Goombas are encountered in Mushroom Gorge, Mario Circuit, Koopa Cape, and the returning GCN Mario Circuit. In Mario Kart 7, are larger, and they appear in Mario Circuit and Piranha Plant Slide, as well as the returning Wii Mushroom Gorge and Wii Koopa Cape. On Piranha Plant Slide, the underground Goombas are colored blue. In Mario Kart 8 and Mario Kart 8 Deluxe, Goombas appear in Mario Circuit, N64 Yoshi Valley (replacing Porcupos from Mario Kart 64), and 3DS Piranha Plant Slide in the base game. Additionally, the Nintendo Switch version's Booster Course Pass also includes them in Tour New York Minute, Wii Mushroom Gorge, DS Mario Circuit, Tour Athens Dash, Wii Koopa Cape, and Tour Madrid Drive. In Mario Kart Tour, Goombas are obstacles in many stages and stage variants. They are the main focus of "Goomba Takedown" challenges, where they may appear in large formations, with the goal of defeating as many as possible in a single lap. Unlike other Mario Kart games, Goombas can be bowled over by driving into them, but this still causes the racer to spin out. Additionally, a Goomba can now also be defeated by landing on them while gliding or after driving off a ramp, giving the driver a Jump Boost. For normal course variants, Goombas are found on all versions of Paris Promenade, as well as Singapore Speedway, Athens Dash 2, Madrid Drive, RMX Mario Circuit 1, DS Mario Circuit, Wii Mushroom Gorge, Wii Koopa Cape, 3DS Mario Circuit, and 3DS Piranha Plant Slide.
Though Mario Kart: Double Dash!! is the first game to have Goombas as obstacles, Mario Kart: Super Circuit is their actual first appearance. However, Goombas, which use their Paper Mario design, are restricted to a background appearance in the audience during the award ceremony. Similarly, Mario Kart Wii also includes Goombas as spectators during the trophy celebration. In Mario Kart 8 and Mario Kart 8 Deluxe, a Goomba is displayed on the height requirement posters in the entrance to the Sub Coaster ride in Water Park, representing the height that riders must be taller than.
Other variants of Goombas are not commonly encountered as obstacles. Technically, the first time any Goomba variation has appeared on a course is in Mario Kart 7, which has wooden cutouts of Goombas blocking the last few turns of the course. In Mario Kart 8, a Goomba Tower appears at the end of Mario Circuit. Furthermore, in the Nintendo Switch version's Booster Course Pass, Innertube Goombas appear in Tour Singapore Speedway, like in Mario Kart Tour, and GCN Daisy Cruiser. In Mario Kart Tour's "Goomba Takedown" challenges, Goombas may appear in the form of Goomba Towers. Additionally, the game also features Shoe Goombas alongside Goombas in Madrid Drive.

Goombas make cameos in the WarioWare series, often within 9-Volt's stage. In WarioWare, Inc.: Mega Microgame$!, they appear in the microgames Super Wario Bros. and Super Mario Bros., both requiring the player to defeat them to win. In WarioWare: Twisted!, they appear as enemies that try to defeat Mario in the boss microgame Super Mario Bros., just as in the original game. In WarioWare: Touched!, Goombas are some of the enemies to be defeated in the Super Mario Bros. Stomp! microgame. In WarioWare: Smooth Moves, one Goomba appears as an obstacle that Mario has to avoid in the third level of the microgame Super Mario Brothers, although sometimes it is replaced with a bottomless pit. In WarioWare: D.I.Y., Goombas make a cameo as a stamp in the GameMakerMatic, and one can appear in the downloadable microgame Hue-Down. Gamer from Game & Wario has a boy in a Goomba costume who must be squashed by Mario in the third level of the microgame Sole Man.

A group of Goombas join Bowser as he attempts to track down Cackletta in Mario & Luigi: Superstar Saga. These Goombas hold tutorial battles with Mario and Luigi in the Koopa Cruiser, who happens to join Bowser in his search for Cackletta (as she has stolen Princess Peach's voice). These Goombas are patrolling the halls of the cruiser or simply hiding in barrels. The Goombas engage in battles with the Mario Bros., to get some training before the Mario Bros. battle Fawful. In battle, a Goomba approaches either Mario or Luigi, somersaults towards him, then bites. This attack can be dodged by jumping after the Goomba opens its mouth. To counter the attack, Mario or Luigi would have to jump right when the Goomba's mouth opens. They each have 4 HP. The Goombas do not see much action after that, since the Koopa Cruiser is shot down by Fawful before Cackletta is engaged in combat.
Although traditional Goombas do not appear throughout the rest of the game, a number of variants are located in Beanbean Kingdom. The Tanoombas reside just north of Beanbean Castle Town. Another, known as the Gritty Goomba, lives in the Teehee Valley region, with their Elite variants residing in Gwarhar Lagoon. These Goombas are covered in bandages and have the ability to conjure sandstorms to distort opponents. The last Goomba of the Beanbean Kingdom is the Goomdiver; unlike most Goombas, they are found on the Seabed and wear special scuba diving gear. Beanies also seem to be the "Goomba" of the Beanbean Kingdom, in a similar manner to Troopeas being the Beanbean counterpart of Koopa Troopas.
Goombas return in the remake of the game, Mario & Luigi: Superstar Saga + Bowser's Minions. One of the first two Goombas that are encountered during Superstar Saga is retroactively revealed to be the future Captain Goomba. Goombas function in the same way as the original as enemies to Mario and Luigi, but now, they play a huge part in the major side story alongside the main Mario Bros. story, Minion Quest: The Search for Bowser, with the protagonist of the story being Captain Goomba, a young, upstart Goomba who leads the charge to rescue Bowser from the hands of Cackletta and Fawful. Goombas are Melee troopers, and attack by charging into enemies. Their Special Skill, Rocket Headbutt, allows them to give an opponent a headbutt. The  button must be pressed as they hit the opponent in order to perform an excellent attack. Paragoombas, Big Tail Goombas, and Goomba Towers also appear as allies.

Goombas are weak enemies in Mario & Luigi: Partners in Time, encountered in Bowser's Castle while in the past. To attack, a Goomba slowly runs into the Mario Bros. This can be countered with a Jump defense. Goombas are sometimes aided in battle by Boos. Additionally, in the present-time events of Mario & Luigi: Partners in Time, Goombas appear in Peach's Castle Dungeon. These Goombas are slightly stronger, and they attack faster than the ones from Bowser's Castle. They are the only non-boss/mini-boss battles that can be fought in the present Mushroom Kingdom.
Other Goomba variants are featured in the game. The Tanoomba returns from Mario & Luigi: Superstar Saga and appears in Thwomp Volcano. A variant of Tanoomba known as Tashrooba is battled in Shroob Castle.

Goombas return in Mario & Luigi: Bowser's Inside Story as one of Bowser's Special Attacks, Goomba Storm, where the player has to touch Goombas to light them on fire and send them upward. The enemy takes damage for each Goomba it is hit with. Fawful captures some Goombas and brainwashes them, while other ones are put in a cage in Dimble Wood. Bowser also encounters two new species, the Chuboombas, fat Goombas that carry lollipops, and Choombas, Goombas that resemble steam engine trains and gain speed in their charge, even after Bowser punches them. Also, another, similar species, called Goombules, are found inside Bowser. Jailgoons are living cage enemies containing either a Goomba or a Bob-omb.
The top screen of Mario and Luigi's Special Attacks tutorials show a Goomba being defeated by the Special Attack although no normal Goombas are fought; Mario & Luigi: Bowser's Inside Story is notable for being the only game in the Mario & Luigi series where regular Goombas do not appear as enemies.
Goombas return in Mario & Luigi: Bowser's Inside Story + Bowser Jr.'s Journey, where they additionally are found as enemies and recruitable allies in the Bowser Jr.'s Journey mode.

Goombas reappear as enemies in Mario & Luigi: Dream Team, where they are found in Driftwood Shore. Unlike most other appearances, Goombas are encountered much later in the game. Like a select few enemies, Goombas do not appear on the field, and can only be fought by getting into a battle with a Fly Guy or Durapurl. In battle, Goombas charge at Mario and Luigi without pausing. If they look in Mario's direction and tilt back, they charge at Mario. If they look at Luigi's direction and tilt forward, they charge at Luigi. Mario and Luigi must avoid this attack by jumping over or on them. Goombas can cause the trip status effect if they hit Mario or Luigi.
Goombas attack in unison with Fly Guys differently depending on whether or not there are Goombas present on the battlefield. If there are not any Goombas present, a Fly Guy flies high into the sky to reappear flying back into the battlefield from the background, now air-lifting a Goomba in its grip, who it drops in line with Mario and Luigi from Mario's left for them both to charge one after another at Mario and Luigi. Dodging the Goomba requires Mario and Luigi to jump before it hits them. Dodging the Fly Guy requires Mario and Luigi to not jump into it while trying to dodge the Goomba, and to just idle as it goes by. This attack takes up the Fly Guy's attack turn.
If there is a Goomba present, a Fly Guy picks up a nearby Goomba, fly above Mario or Luigi, and bomb the Goomba on them, which must be countered by smacking the Goomba with the hammer before it lands on the targeted Bro. Regardless of whether the former part of the attack was countered or not, if the Goomba was not defeated due to the counter-attack damage, it then either runs at the targeted Bro again or if the Goomba has stars around its head, it charges into the Bro who was not originally targeted. The Goomba must then be hit with the hammer again. This attack takes up the Fly Guy's attack turn.
Goombas have weaker versions early in the game known as Grombas.
A stronger variation of Goombas called Goombas R appears later on in the game.

Goombas return in Mario & Luigi: Paper Jam as a basic enemy. Both Goombas and Paper Goombas appear. They are commonly found in the Sunbeam Plains, several are fought during the mission Final Smash in Neo Bowser Castle, and one is fought alongside a Paper Goomba, a Koopa Troopa and a Paper Koopa Troopa as one of Bowser's last lines of defense. The Goombas have a similar attack pattern to Goombules from Mario & Luigi: Bowser's Inside Story. One of the Battle Cards can possibly turn standard enemies into Goombas.
Goombas also appear during the final battle against Shiny RoboBowser. Aside from Shiny Paper Goombas occasionally appearing, regular Goombas appear during two of Bowser's attacks. When he chases the trio to the left, Goombas appear along the path and must be jumped over to avoid damage. They also appear during the Airplane Guard chase attack, where Goombas run at the Bros. in a horizontal line and must also be jumped over.
Additionally, a crinkled Goomba appears as a recurring character. He serves as the first enemy fought in the game, the tutorial for Paper Mario's unique abilities and Battle Cards. The Crinkled Goomba serves as an ally and enemy to the Mario brothers, helping them on some occasions (such as outright giving the Mario brothers Battle Cards) while hindering them on others (such as stealing the medallion necessary to enter Bowser's Castle).

In both games of the Mario Baseball series, Mario Superstar Baseball and Mario Super Sluggers, Goomba is a playable character, as well as a Paragoomba. Both Goomba and Paragoomba use a baseball bat and a glove, which they levitate to make up for their lack of arms. Goomba has the Ball Dash ability, where it can run very fast and possibly tag any runners out when carrying the ball. In Mario Superstar Baseball, Goomba is a balanced character with average running, though it is slightly weak in every other stat. Goomba has good chemistry with Paragoomba, Diddy Kong and Monty Mole, and no bad chemistry with any of the characters. In Mario Super Sluggers, Goomba has good chemistry with Koopa Troopa instead of Diddy Kong, and it was given bad chemistry with Toad, Toadette, and Toadsworth.

In Super Princess Peach, Princess Peach has to fight the Koopa Troop while attempting to rescue Mario, Luigi, and Toads. In the game, Bowser has acquired the Vibe Scepter from Vibe Island, and he uses its power to attack Princess Peach's Castle. A lone Goomba leads an army of Hammer Bros. in an assault on the castle, using the power of the Vibe Scepter to debilitate the castle guards. The attack is successful, and Mario, Luigi, and multiple castle Toads are captured by the Hammer Bros. Fortunately, Princess Peach and her attendant Toadsworth escapes the assault. Princess Peach decides to rescue her friends, and she is given a magical umbrella named Perry to help her in her quest. Once again, Goombas, among other enemies, attempt to stop her in her travels around Vibe Island. She can throw the Goomba at another enemy, hit the Goomba with Perry, or have the umbrella eat the Goomba. Paragoombas, as well as Red Paragoombas, appear in the game as well. Princess Peach also battles with a number of emotional varieties of Goomba, all affected by the power of the Vibe Scepter (which is accidentally released across the island by the Goomba who leads the attack on Mushroom Castle). These emotional Goombas include the Mad Goomba, the Sad Goomba, the Sad Paragoomba, and the M. Red P-Goomba.

In Mario Hoops 3-on-3, there is a Goomba-shaped basketball, unlocked by obtaining a gold trophy in the Hard Star Tourney. Additionally, Goombas appear as crowd members in  Mario Stadium.

In the Mario & Sonic series, Goombas first appear in the Nintendo DS version of Mario & Sonic at the Olympic Games. Here, they only appear in two minigames, Conveyor Belt, as one of the species needing to be sorted, and Shoot!, as one of the enemies needing to be hit.
Since both the Wii version and the Nintendo DS version of Mario & Sonic at the Olympic Winter Games, Goombas have mainly had the role of being obstacles in Olympic events, based on their recurring role in the Mario Kart series. In the game's Nintendo DS version, Goombas appear as obstacles in Ski Cross Racing, as well as a single one at the end of the Deluxe Halfpipe course, all of which slow whoever hits them. In the Wii version, Goombas appear in both the individual and team versions of Dream Ski Cross, where they slowly move around the course, and whoever touches them falls over and loses speed. In Dream Ice Hockey, Goombas occasionally appear on the rink and knocks over any characters that hit them. Goombas also appear in Dream Curling, where one appears as part of every frame and can be hit to score 5 bonus points. The Goombas are not included in the pin total for strikes and spares, though the points earned for them are doubled if hit after scoring one. In the Nintendo 3DS version of Mario & Sonic at the Rio 2016 Olympic Games, a pair of Goomba sprites from Super Mario Bros. appear as character walls, functioning as obstacles that block the golf ball, although they disappear when hit.
Aside from being obstacles, Goombas commonly appear in figure skating events. In the Wii version of Mario & Sonic at the Olympic Winter Games, several Goombas also appear in the first segment of the Mario World routine in Dream Figure Skating. Similarly, in the game's Nintendo DS version, Goombas appear in Ultimate Figure Skating, where they can be defeated using spin attacks in the spin sections of the Mario Medley and alongside Kikis in the Mario & Sonic Medley. A single Goomba appears during Mario's Figure Skating Spectacular in Mario & Sonic at the Sochi 2014 Olympic Winter Games, where it appears as the true form of the Tail Bowser after it has been defeated.
In Curling Bowling, an event in the Nintendo DS version of Mario & Sonic at the Olympic Winter Games, Goombas uniquely serve a role of being bowling pins, and the player must fully knock Goombas down to earn points. This is not unlike Goomba Bowling, a minigame later introduced in a different game, Mario Party 9.
A Goomba has a role in the Story Mode of the Nintendo 3DS version of Mario & Sonic at the London 2012 Olympic Games, though mainly during the bonus episodes. A Goomba is first seen at the opening ceremony for the Olympic Games. In the bonus episodes, a Goomba encourages Bowser Jr. to defeat another of Dr. Eggman's robots after his initial victory, and they find Dr. Eggman and Metal Sonic at the Main Stadium. When Dr. Eggman sets some consequences for Bowser Jr. losing the match, Goomba unsuccessfully tries to dissuade him but congratulates Bowser Jr. when he wins and promises to tell Bowser. A Goomba also appears in the Wild Ones bonus episodes, where it notices that Bowser seems to be in a particularly bad mood after getting a bad introduction to London. Goomba then accompanies Bowser to challenge Donkey Kong at the Main Stadium, and then Knuckles and Vector at ExCeL London. When the other minions are unsuccessful in setting up a match with Mario for Bowser, Goomba is hesitantly transformed by Magikoopa to look like him and challenges Bowser in Tennis (Singles). After losing the match, Goomba is transformed back and celebrates with the other minions when Bowser's mood improves. Aside from their role in Story mode, a Goomba also has an obtainable badge.

In Super Mario Chess, Goombas appear as rooks on Bowser's team.

In their first appearance in the Mario Tennis series, Mario Tennis Open, Goombas have a racket that can be used by Miis, as well as a Goomba costume if the player unlocks 100 tennis gear items. In Mario Tennis Aces, Goombas appear as passengers scurrying across the Snowfall Mountain court.

Goombas have only made two minor appearances in the Mario Golf series. In Mario Golf: World Tour, Goombas are NPC characters in the Castle Club game mode. Additionally, their name can appear on the tournament scoreboard, and their costume, ball, and golf clubs can be used by Miis. In Mario Golf: Super Rush, a horde of Goombas appears in Bonny Greens and Rookie Course as NPCs.

Goombas, regaining their traits from Super Mario 3D World, return as enemies in Captain Toad: Treasure Tracker and its Nintendo Switch and Nintendo 3DS ports. Goomba Towers and the Innertube Goombas return as well.

Goombas appear as weak, common enemies in the puzzle and RPG hybrid called Puzzle & Dragons: Super Mario Bros. Edition. A Goomba's main attribute is the Wood type, which means its weakness is Fire while resisting Water. Its skill is Bash, where it can deal 10 damage to one foe. Its level cap is 25, lower than most enemies and allies in the game.

In the Super Mario Mash-up in Minecraft, chickens are replaced by Goombas. A 3D reconstruction and 2D pixel art of Goombas appear in the premade world of the game.

Goombas appear as team members for soccer and baseball in Mario Sports Superstars, this being the third sports game in which Goombas are playable. Contrary to their appearances in the Mario Baseball series, they are classified as power-type characters. In soccer, Bone Goombas can also be selected. Goombas, alongside Bone Goombas, appear as enemies in the Road to Superstar mode of the game, where players need to clear them and other obstacles with sports equipment in order to progress through the mode.

Goombas appear in Mario + Rabbids Kingdom Battle as background characters in the Ancient Gardens. One can be seen with a happy expression while being levitated by a water spout, to which Beep-0 comments, "On the plus side his backside has got to be extremely clean by now." A group of Ziggies can also be seen sticking two Goombas together with honey during their introductory cutscene.

Goombas return in the sequel, Mario + Rabbids Sparks of Hope, this time as enemies. They first appear in the battle Headlong into the Unknown on the Darkmess Manta, where Cursa hypnotizes a group of them to attack Mario and Rabbid Peach. After they are hypnotized, their eye pupils turn orange. Goombas later appear commonly in Beacon Beach and Palette Prime, as well as alongside the Giant Magikoopa in Terra Flora (which can spawn six Goombas per turn), alongside Daphne during the first phase of her battle in Barrendale Mesa, and alongside Darkmess Bowser in Cursa's stronghold.
In battle, Goombas often appear in lines of three and usually have low enough HP for all of them to be defeated with a single dash if the playable character lines up directly in front of the one at the front or the back. If they are not defeated following a dash attack, they flip over and can be picked up and thrown, dealing low damage to the Goomba itself and to any enemy it lands on. Goombas attack by dashing into the playable characters. They also have new voices in this game.
There are also stronger variants called Armored Goombas with metal pots on their heads.

Goombas debut in the Dr. Mario series in Dr. Mario World as assistants, being the first assistant the player receives after completing Stage 5 (Stage 20 prior to version 2.0.0), as well as being a reward after clearing the first area of World 25. Their Stage Mode skill increases the score by a percentage of the base score (2%, 4%, 6%, 8%, and 10% at level 1 to level 5 respectively) rounded down, while their Versus Mode skill grants a chance that the attack meter fills instantly if the opponent attacks, effectively counterattacking the opponent. In addition, a Goomba Tower appears as one of the playable doctors. During Clinic Events, a Goomba appeared as a patient in Season 2 and the Season 2 revisit.

Goombas appear in The Super Mario Bros. Movie as troops in Bowser's army. Some Goombas are also shown as captives alongside the Penguin King, Penguins, a Lumalee, and Luigi.

In The Legend of Zelda: Link's Awakening, Goombas appear as enemies within various dungeons. Link encounters most of them in the sidescrolling passages, often alongside Piranha Plants, except Eagle's Tower, which is the only top-down area where Goombas appear. Link can defeat a Goomba by either jumping on it (provided he has the Roc's Feather equipped), just like in the Super Mario series, or use his signature method of striking it with his sword. If Link jumps on a Goomba, he gains a heart. If a Goomba touches Link, he loses half of a heart in his health meter.
Unlike in most of their appearances, Goombas are depicted with a smiling face. In the Nintendo Direct trailer for the Nintendo Switch remake, Goombas have an identical design to their modern appearance in the Super Mario franchise, but for the final release, their frowning expression was changed to a smile, more closely resembling their appearance in the original game. The Nintendo Switch remake also features a collectible Goomba figure that can be won in the Trendy Game after clearing the Tail Cave and placed in Marin and Tarin's house. The text that appears upon acquiring the Goomba figure reads, "You got a Goomba figure! Try to resist the urge to jump on it."

8-bit Goombas appear in the jogging minigame in Wii Fit, where they are scattered throughout the island, along with some other Super Mario Bros. sprites. Although they serve mainly as scenery, in the Wii Fit Plus version of the minigame, at the end of the course, a question about what sprite the player saw may be asked.

A Goomba appears in a variation of the Bad Luck Brian image macro uploaded by Nintendo to Facebook on May 29, 2014. The caption in the image states that this Goomba finally got a summer break, only to get stomped on by Mario at the beach.

Goombas come in many different colors. The following is a list of all known Goombas and the first appearance of the respective Goomba.

Goombas are a fungus-based species capable of speech. They resemble brown shiitake mushrooms (or chestnuts, hence their Japanese name) with two feet, stems that are either yellow or tan, but no arms. Goombas have large faces that occupy most of their mushroom caps, while their stems attach their heads to their feet. A defining feature are their black bushy eyebrows that form a scowl. They also have two upward-pointing fangs that sometimes resemble braces. Both Goombas and Toads are fungus-based, and both originated from the Mushroom Kingdom (although, as mentioned, the Goomba race betrayed their homeland many years ago).
The Super Mario Bros. Movie gives the Goombas a redesign: they have a more stylized appearance, as with all of the characters in the movie, and unlike their previous appearances, Goombas are shown to have colored eyes, which are brown.

Goombas are among the most basic enemies. They can typically be defeated with a single punch, stomp, or fireball attack, although in some games, they are a bit more resilient. When jumped on, Goombas usually flatten before being defeated. They are particularly weak against fire magic, as seen in Super Mario RPG: Legend of the Seven Stars. Although Goombas are physically weak, they are very adaptable. Regular Goombas have been encountered in almost all types of terrain, while many variants have emerged well-suited for certain environments. Goombas cannot swim and drown instantly when they touch water.

Goombas' main form of attack is walking into their opponents. Rarely, a Goomba walks off a ledge and falls on its enemy. A Goomba's only real strength is that it works in large groups to attack an enemy. This forces the opponent to be much more cautious as they fight the group. In some games, Goombas have additional attacks such as biting and spitting thorns from their mouths in Super Mario RPG: Legend of the Seven Stars. In the Mario & Luigi series, various Goombas attack by charging with a headbutt, biting, rolling, and kicking. In Paper Mario and Paper Mario: The Thousand-Year Door, Goombas gain the ability to headbonk enemies, which also returns in Mario & Luigi: Superstar Saga + Bowser's Minions.
While not as often as characters like Shy Guys, Goombas do occasionally use tools to aid them. Despite their lack of arms, Goombas are shown to be able to pick up and use various objects. In Super Mario Party, the playable Goomba is shown holding objects in its mouth and sometimes carries things on top of its head, such as a boomerang or Dice Block.
One part of technology the Goombas use is the parachute. The parachute allows a large number of Goombas to swarm enemy territory from the sky. Goombas using life preservers, and Goomdivers are equipped to adapt to water. Goombas have developed a number of tools to counter the jumping ability of the Mario Bros.: The Goomba's Shoe allows them to imitate Mario and Luigi, while the spiked hat seen in the Paper Mario series counters any jump attack (unless Mario is wearing a Spike Shield badge). Gritty Goombas have attached spears to their heads to counter stomp attacks as well.
Goombas are often thought of as one of the weakest members of the Koopa Troop. Super Mario 64 DS, the Mario & Luigi series, and the Paper Mario series show Goombas resent their low social status as the first enemies to be stomped by Mario and Luigi. A figurine bio in Mario Party DS even states they dream of one day turning the tables on the red plumber. Goombas usually appear as enemies, but there can also be heroic Goombas, like Goombella and Goombario.

The original Japanese name, "Kuribō", translates to "Chestnut Guy", which was due to the designs looking more like chestnuts than shiitake mushrooms. The name "Goomba" is phonetically similar to the Italian slang term "goombah". The term "goombah" is originated from the Italian word "compare" (abbreviated as "compà") which literally means "friend" in South Italy and "member of a criminal gang" in North Italy. This term was used by South Italians in the USA to describe themselves (although the term has also emerged as a derogatory word used by North-Italians against South-Italians and by Americans against Italian-Americans).
It may also be a derivation of "gomba", meaning "mushroom" in Hungarian.

Most profiles mention that Goombas are among the lowliest and weakest creatures while also frequently stating they used to be peaceful members of the Mushroom Kingdom before turning traitorous and joining Bowser when he first attacked. Their stats are generally balanced, but on the low side.