Goonies are enemies introduced in Super Mario World 2: Yoshi's Island. They are white birds that appear most prominently within the Yoshi's Island series. They are likely based on the snowy albatross, which is also called a "goonie" or "gooney bird", although they have been described as "seagulls". Some Goonies carry Shy Guys or bombs, similarly to how Albatosses carry Bob-ombs in Super Mario Bros. 2.

Goonies are enemies in Super Mario World 2: Yoshi's Island and its remake. They appear in most mountain levels and are always found in groups. There are many different varieties of Goonies. There are Flightless Goonies which, as the name implies, are Goonies that cannot fly and run on the ground. There is a Dry Bones-like variety of Goonie, known as the Skeleton Goonie, which usually carries bombs. Bowling Goonies are fat Goonies that roll along the ground. Hefty Goonies are the flying versions of Bowling Goonies, and if Yoshi swallowed one of these and spat it out, it would turn into their flightless counterparts. Additionally, Goonies can be seen flying in the background in some levels (as seen in the image on the right).

Goonies are enemies in Yoshi's Island DS, along with their flightless and skeletal counterparts. This game has two levels named after Goonies: Goonie Heights and The Goonie Coast Isn't Clear! A Hefty Goonie boss named Moltz the Very Goonie also appears as the fort boss of World 5. Also after The Fort of Moltz the Very Goonie is completed, all the later levels will have Skeleton Goonies. Goonies and Flightless Goonies use sprites edited from their Yoshi Touch & Go appearance, while Skeleton Goonies use ones edited from Super Mario World 2: Yoshi's Island, resulting in Skeleton Goonies being noticeably smaller than normal Goonies.

Goonies are enemies in Yoshi's New Island. They act exactly as they did in past games. Skeleton Goonies, Flightless Goonies, Flightless Skeleton Goonies and Hefty Goonies also return. They prevail in the level, Fine Feathered Friends or Foes?.

A Goonie is allied with Lakitu in Tetris Attack.

Goonies (also known as Bomber Birds) are enemies in Yoshi's Story. They are only encountered in Stage 3-3: Poochy & Nippy. Some of the Goonies carry bombs. Gray Goonies also appear in Stage 5-4: Shy Guy's Ship. They cannot hurt the Yoshis directly in this game and constantly make an "Aa-ho!" noise, based on their Japanese name.

Goonies appear in the background of two recurring Yoshi stages in the Super Smash Bros. series: Super Happy Tree, which debuted in the original Super Smash Bros., and Yoshi's Island, which debuted in Super Smash Bros. Brawl. Goonies also appear as a Sticker in Super Smash Bros. Brawl.

Goonies are an interactable species in Game & Watch Gallery 3. They appear in the Modern version of Turtle Bridge, being used for relaying packages between Toad and Mario, and some of the Goonies dive at passing balloons.

In Paper Mario, during the cutscene where Mario rides the Whale to Lavalava Island, a Goonie can be seen flying over the ocean. Unlike most characters in Paper Mario (one of the few other exceptions being the Whale himself), this Goonie is three-dimensional. This is the only scene where a Goonie is found.

Goonies (here called Little Birdies) make a cameo appearance in Cheep-Cheep Island in Mario Kart: Super Circuit. Like small birds in later titles, they simply fly away temporarily if the player drives into one.

Goonies are background elements in Wave 4 of the Booster Course Pass for Mario Kart 8 Deluxe. They appear in the background of the Yoshi's Island.

Goonies appear in Mario Kart Tour in the background of the Yoshi's Island track.

In Nintendo Puzzle Collection, flocks of Goonies appear from the right side of the screen when a stage of Round 5 is cleared in the Action Mode of Yoshi no Cookie.

Goonies are enemies in Yoshi Touch & Go. They occasionally fly in the sky in certain parts during the ground part of the Marathon mode. Yoshi can hit them with eggs to earn points. Skeleton Goonies also appear.

Goonies have a very minor appearance in Mario & Luigi: Bowser's Inside Story during the Bowser's Castle and Tower of Yikk fight. When Bowser attacks, Goonies occasionally fly out from nearby trees, and appear in the opening sequence of the giant battle.

Goonies are enemies in Yoshi's Woolly World and its port. They fly from right to left and can harm Yoshi. However, they can be turned into white yarn balls if Yoshi eats them. When stood on, Goonies rise up, allowing Yoshi to reach items previously out of reach. If hit with a yarn ball, Goonies lose their wings and become Flightless Goonies.
As with almost all characters in the game, Goonies have a knitted, amigurumi appearance. They first show up in one of the levels in World 3, Fanciful Fluff and Feathers.

Goonies are enemies in Yoshi's Crafted World. They are rare enemies alongside their flightless counterparts. Their appearance and behavior are mostly unchanged from previous games. Goonies first appear in the course Windward Way. Their main use in this game is to transport Yoshi from pit to pit. Goonie and Flightless Goonie crafts can also be found in the courses Pirate Pier, Windward Way, Bombs Away on Pirate Island and Open, Shut! respectively. There is also a constellation of a Goonie on the front side of Ride the Stars.

Goonies have unused enemy graphics in Super Princess Peach, ripped from Yoshi's Island: Super Mario Advance 3 with a darker palette. However, Skeleton Goonies and Flightless Skeleton Goonies make a background cameo in Wavy Beach.