The Grand World Map is the navigation interface of Super Mario Galaxy 2. It shows all the game's worlds and allows Starship Mario to immediately travel to any of them, provided they have been unlocked (thus turning the paths between them from dotted blue to solid yellow). The worlds are arranged in a linear zigzag pattern, and are close enough together that the neighboring worlds (including unlocked worlds) can be seen when focused on any given world (unlike the World Maps, which show only the galaxies within worlds and nothing exterior to them).
The Grand World Map is first shown to Mario by Lubba after World 2 has been unlocked at the beginning of the game. It can be accessed by pressing  on the Wii Remote, or by simply pressing the "Zoom out" button found at the top right of the screen. This can be done only from the overworlds and not while playing through a level: The galaxy has to be exited before the Grand World Map can be viewed. If the player wishes to return to an individual world at any time, they can either press  or  on the Wii Remote while over the world they wish to go to or use the Star Pointer hand to select the world they wish to visit and click it (if Starship Mario is not already over the world, it must be clicked once to travel there, then again to enter it). When entering a world, Starship Mario is always at the starting position, although viewing the Grand World Map and then returning to the World Map the player started in does not shift their position.
When Starship Mario is positioned directly over a world, the name of the world appears in the top left corner of the screen, and a small rectangular box appears on the bottom of the screen. In this box are displayed all galaxies that have currently been unlocked for that particular world, along with any special status conditions for the galaxies, such as the icons for Prankster Comets, Jibberjay races, The Chimp challenges, Gearmo assistance, or simply a recently unlocked galaxy, which is marked as "New." The box also displays a crown icon if the galaxy has been fully completed, as well as a Comet Medal icon when the player has found that galaxy's Comet Medal. Any galaxies that have not been unlocked yet are indicated by a small dot in the place of its revolving galaxy icon until such time as the galaxy is unlocked. Because the worlds themselves are often nonlinear, the order of the galaxies in the box does not always correspond to the actual order; while the first galaxy is always at the farmost left and the last galaxy at the right, the rest are arranged in order of descending total numbers of Power Stars, and then by the order in which they are unlocked (the Star List is organized the same way).