A Grinder is a spinning circular saw blade that acts as a hazard in several Super Mario games.

Grinders first appear in Super Mario World (and its reissue) as enemies. Grinders are encountered in some Fortresses and Castles. There are line-guided Grinders that travel along a dotted line, whilst non-line-guided Grinders travel across the floor. The blades are rather large and cannot be jumped on, although they can be defeated by a Slope Slide (which displays a glitchy sprite). Mario or Luigi can also Spin Jump onto a Grinder, which lets them bounce off it without taking any damage. This obstacle first appears in Forest Fortress and their only other appearance is in #6 Wendy's Castle.

In Super Mario Galaxy 2, Grinders (referred to as "buzz saws" in the Prima guide) appear in the Puzzle Plank Galaxy and the Rolling Masterpiece Galaxy, where they cut through planks of wood and cause them to fall. When Mario traverses certain parts of a planet or comes close to a buzz saw, it starts moving and any enemy that touches it is defeated. Garigari Minis also appear in the game, which are smaller versions that cut in curves rather than straight lines.

Grinders also appear in Super Mario 3D Land, behaving like they did in Super Mario Galaxy 2. They appear only in World 7-5, where they are the primary obstacles for the level.

Grinders appear in New Super Mario Bros. 2, where they operate on tracks as they did in Super Mario World. They make clock ticking sound effects and can also jump vertically, if the tracks allow them to. Grinders are among the few obstacles in the game that cannot be destroyed by Gold Mario's fireballs, though it is possible to destroy a Grinder by touching it as White Raccoon Mario. They are extremely common throughout World 3-Castle, serving as the level's main obstacles. Grinders also appear in World Star-Castle, and the third level of the Impossible Pack. Big Grinders also appear in the game.

Grinders reappear in Super Mario Maker, Super Mario Maker for Nintendo 3DS and Super Mario Maker 2. Their appearance is larger and different than that of previous titles. Because Grinders did not appear in Super Mario Bros. and Super Mario Bros. 3, new sprites were made for those styles, and the New Super Mario Bros. 2 model is reused for the New Super Mario Bros. U style, though a bigger sprite was created for the Super Mario World style instead of reusing the original sprite. They also cannot be Spin Jumped on and are invincible, though they can be jumped on using Yoshi or a Goomba's Shoe. Grinders in this game remain floating in place instead of spinning right and left if not connected to a track.
The version 1.30 update allows the player to shake the Grinder, turning it into a Bumper. The Bumper will simply cause Mario to bounce off it, and nothing else. In Super Mario Maker 2 Bumpers are now separate objects.

Grinders appear as obstacles in Super Mario Run. They can be found staying in one spot, or moving on a track. Grinders appear in Cutting-Edge Spire and Make the Cut!.

Buzz saws reappear in Yoshi's Story. They are found abundantly in Mecha Castle and Lift Castle, and reappear in Magma Castle in tight spaces. Some buzz saws are permanently connected to walls and need to be jumped or crawled past.

Grinders also appear in Paper Mario: Sticker Star. They are only found in Chomp Ruins where they will hurt Mario if he comes into contact with one.

A Grinder appears as Bowser Jr.'s dash attack in Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS / Wii U and Super Smash Bros. Ultimate.

Grinders also appeared in Mario & Luigi: Paper Jam. They are found in Mount Brrr as obstacles in the Trio Drill sections. If the trio come into contact with one, they will be forced out of the dirt.

Grinders reappear in WarioWare: Get It Together! as obstacles in level 3 of the Super Mario World microgame.