Gusty Glade is the twenty-fifth level in Donkey Kong Country 2: Diddy's Kong Quest and the third area of Gloomy Gulch. It takes place in the spooky woods and prominently features strong gusts of wind, powerful enough to propel the Kongs in the direction it blows, either left or right. The wind stops blowing in parts of the level, which is when the leaves fall down casually. A light windstorm sometimes occurs, which does not affect Diddy and Dixie Kong, but it could indicate a forthcoming windstorm. Gusty Glade also features abysses, where the wind usually begins to blow again so that the Kongs can gross the gap. Gusty Glade has a few Barrel Cannon segments where the Kongs usually only have to blast out while the wind is not blowing so that they do not fall into a pitfall or a Zinger. Rattly's animal crate is hidden behind the starting point, and a team up throw can be used to reach the area with it. If Rattly is freed, the Kongs can ride him up to the No Animal Sign about halfway through.

Diddy and Dixie begin the level in front of a tall, steep hill. They can optionally continue or open the Rattly Crate above the hill. A straight pathway with a pair of Klampons on it is to the right of the tall hill. Once the enemies are passed, a strong wind begins to blow the heroes towards a large alcove with a Click-Clack in it. There is a DK Barrel above this alcove. Some stair-like structures follow with a few more Klampons marching down them. A second gap is present after the last stair, and a Banana Coin floats within it. On the other side of the gap, the Kongs can find a pathway that winds around a raised piece of land with two Spinies and a Treasure Chest, containing the letter K, on it.
Another large abyss is ahead, but it can be crossed if the heroes ride on the hard gusts of wind. A gap much wider follows, and dozens of thin, pillar-like platforms are in it. Most of these platforms hold a Neek or a Klampon, but two of them carry the letter O and a DK Barrel. After the final pillar, the Kongs approach another large gap that they can cross with the wind's help. There are some stair-like structures on the opposite side of the abyss, and Klampons and Spinies walk along them. Another abyss is ahead, and this time, the wind cannot help the Kongs cross it, as a high platform must be reached. However, a hook floats in the center of the gap to assist the heroes in crossing. After they pass the gap, they can find a pathway leading to another gap. A small hill with a No Animal Sign is on the pathway, and Rattly disappears when it is passed, if he had been found previously. An Auto Fire Barrel with the Star Barrel above it is above the gap mentioned previously.

This barrel immediately blasts the primates onto a solid piece of land on the other side of the gap, where a Kannon is present. A wide alcove is ahead with a Kutlass in it. The Kongs' path is blocked by a high wall near here. However, they can climb to the top of the wall, which has a DK Barrel on it, with the use of a hook hanging in the air. Two Kutlass enemies are on the other side of the wall, and one of them can be found on a raised piece of land with a treasure chest, containing a kannonball, on it. Another treasure chest that contains the letter N is under this piece of land. Three gaps are farther ahead. The Kongs must be cautious of a pair of Zingers as they cross the first gap. The second gap, which a simple jump can help them cross, is followed by a small platform holding a kannon. The third abyss is very wide, and not even the wind can blow the heroes all the way across. Luckily, hooks float above the gap that they can use to pass it. The wind blows as they use the hooks to their advantage, and it can push them in the wrong direction as they hold onto the objects. Once the primates overcome the large abyss, they can reach large area of land with a gap in the center of it. A raised piece of land is behind the gap that can be used to cross it. As the Kongs walk along it, a Kannon shoots at them. A DK Barrel wobbles on the section of ground below the enemy. Three Barrel Cannons are present in a wide abyss ahead. The barrels, placed in a upward position, must be used to guide the primates over the abyss. 
When they blast the heroes into the air, they are sent upwards, so they must shift to the right after exiting the barrels to land in the following cannon. However, the wind can blow them in the wrong direction if they shoot at the wrong time. When the Kongs finally pass the abyss, they find themselves on a tall hill with a Kannon on the bottom of it. A wide gap with a Video Game Hero Coin above it is near the foe. The wind can help the heroes cross the abyss and land on a platform with another abyss right after it. The letter G is in this gap, which can be passed with the aid of the wind. An even wider pit follows. This time, the wind is an inconvenience to the Kongs, and they must use Barrel Cannons to cross. As they blast out of the barrels, which, as before, shoot them upwards, the wind pushes them around. They must wait for the correct time to shoot so that the wind puts them in the right place. A Zinger is on the other side of the abyss next to the End of Level Target, whose prizes include a Banana Bunch, a Banana Coin, or a Red Balloon. The Kongs can win a prize from it before leaving the level if they blast down from the last Barrel Cannon.

The following enemies appear in the following quantities:

The following items and objects appear in the following quantities:

Gusty Glade has two Bonus Levels, listed by type: