Hammer Mario, also referred to as Hammer Brother Mario, is a form of Mario or Luigi only seen in Super Mario Bros. 3 and its SNES and Game Boy Advance remakes, gained when he wears a Hammer Suit. This form is not to be confused with Mario or Luigi wielding a hammer, with the difference being the infinite disposable supply of hammers and the black shell armor.

In this form, Mario and Luigi resemble a Hammer Brother and, like one, are able to throw an infinite supply of hammers in a short upward arc (which can be lengthened or shortened with the ). Hammers can defeat most enemies, even those that cannot be defeated with fireballs, such as the Angry Sun, Buzzy Beetles, Boos, Bullet Bills, Chain Chomps, Dry Bones, Firesnakes, Hot Foots, Podoboos, Para-Beetles, Stretches, and Thwomps; they can also defeat Boom Boom and Bowser. As such, this form can be considered a stronger version of the Fire form. They cannot defeat Roto-Discs, Jelectros, Munchers, or the Koopalings, however. As with fireballs, only two hammers can be thrown at a time, but hammers can fly through ceilings, walls, and floors. Mario and Luigi can also block enemies' fireballs in this form by crouching, but they cannot slide down slopes. However, they can slide down a slope if they get a Hammer Suit while already sliding, though only in World 6-10's bonus room.
Despite the official artwork depicting Hammer Mario with his normal complexion and outfit colors underneath, his Family Computer and Nintendo Entertainment System sprite depicts him with tan skin in levels, a white shirt, white shoes, and black overalls; his skin color is normal on the world map, in castles after saving one of the kings, and in the ending roll. His 16-bit sprites depict him with a brown shirt and gray overalls.
Super Mario Advance 4 adds a new utility to this form: its hammers can break Rock Blocks.

In Super Mario Maker, its Nintendo 3DS version, and Super Mario Maker 2, knocking on a Warp Door in the Super Mario Bros. 3 theme may cause Weird Mario to appear in this form. In the latter game, Builder Mario's hammer swing can break Hard Blocks (similar to the Rock Blocks in Super Mario Advance 4) and defeat most usually unbeatable foes, like this form.

Hammer Mario appears in the second Super Mario Bros. 3 microgame from WarioWare: Twisted!, where it is one of the power-up forms that can be selected.