Hammer Bros (also known as Hammer Brothers and sometimes formatted with a full stop in older material) are enemies introduced in Super Mario Bros. These Koopas stand upright and throw hammers at targets. They wear helmets that usually match the color of their shell. Hammer Bros. have several times been described as elite members of Bowser's Koopa Troop. They were originally designed by Kazuaki Morita.

Hammer Brothers appear in Super Mario Bros. and Super Mario Bros.: The Lost Levels A total of twenty are encountered in the former game, mostly in pairs, including a pair in World 3-1; two pairs in World 5-2; two pairs in World 7-1; one in World 7-4 that is disguised as Bowser; eight in World 8-3; and one in World 8-4 before the true Bowser. Hammer Brothers throw claw hammers, which always face left and rotate counterclockwise, and jump between the ground and one or two rows of Brick Blocks. Hammer Brothers give 1,000 points when defeated, either from a stomp, being hit from beneath the block they are on, being hit by a shell or a fireball, or contact with Invincible Mario. A Hammer Brother starts chasing the player character if it is onscreen for about 50 seconds, though Hammer Bros. in Super Mario Bros.: The Lost Levels begin chasing the player more evidently from World 7-1 onwards, and they are encountered underwater in World 9-1, sporting a gray depiction in the Family Computer Disk System release because of the underwater palette. In the Super Mario All-Stars release of both games, the hammers thrown by Hammer Brothers are done slightly slower, fly on a larger curve, and make a whistling sound.

Hammer Brothers return in Super Mario Bros. 3. Their design depicts them with more yellow skin, black helmets, black Buzzy Beetle-like shells, and throwing mallets instead. There are 19 Hammer Brothers in total, a majority appearing in Enemy Courses in Grass Land, Water Land, Sky Land, and Ice Land; the first World 8-trap is the only proper level to include them. Hammer Bros. and their varieties all share the same world map sprites in the Family Computer and Nintendo Entertainment System release. Under certain conditions, one of the Hammer Brothers is replaced by a Treasure Ship. Three more Hammer Brothers appear in World-e in the handheld remake: In Bowser's Last Stand, the first of three doors leads to a room with two Hammer Brothers; in Koopaling Confusion, a Hammer Bro is at the start of the second section, stationed by two wooden platforms under the level's third Advance Coin, Behaviorally, Hammer Brothers do not chase the player characters at all. They can be defeated from the same methods as before, in addition to a hammer from Hammer Mario or the tail of Raccoon or Tanooki Mario. Hammer Brothers have a point value of 100, unless they are stomped, giving 1,000 points instead. Variants debuting in the game include Boomerang Brothers, which throw boomerangs; Fire Brothers, which throw fireballs; Sledge Brothers, which are large and can create tremors upon landing. None of the variants jump between rows of blocks.
A Hammer Bro was originally planned to host a Dice game. This was implemented as late as testing, but was eventually cut.

Hammer Brothers do not appear in Super Mario World, though a variation of them named Amazing Flyin' Hammer Brother does appear. Hammer Brothers were considered for inclusion during development.

Hammer Bros. return in New Super Mario Bros. They are designed after their look in Super Mario Bros., also throwing claw hammers as before. They are encountered only in World 2-4, where two are in an area with the third Star Coin. A similarity with Hammer Bros. as in Super Mario Bros. 3 is their appearance in Enemy Courses from World 5 onwards, where defeating them causes a power-up item to appear.

Hammer Bros. appear in New Super Mario Bros. Wii. Hammer Bros. are encountered in World 1-3 only; there are two individual ones and one pair of them. Hammer Bros. are the same as before. They cannot be eaten by Yoshi, but he can catch their hammers with his tongue to spit it back at them. Besides Hammer Bros., the Boomerang Bros., Fire Bros., and Sledge Bros. also return, and adds Ice Bros., which throw Ice Balls.

Hammer Bros. appear in Super Mario Galaxy 2. They are encountered in Bowser's Lava Lair, Bowser Jr.'s Fearsome Fleet, Bowser's Galaxy Generator, and Grandmaster Galaxy. Hammer Bros. attack by throwing two hammers aimed at the player character, before leaping elsewhere and repeating. A Hammer Bro is spun out temporarily on its shell if the player character either spins at or stomps it, giving an opportunity to defeat it on contact; a Hammer Bro can also be defeated from a Ground Pound or if Yoshi spits one of its hammers at it. Boomerang Bros. also return.

Hammer Bros. return in Super Mario 3D Land. They are encountered mostly in castle levels. Hammer Bros. behave identically as in Super Mario Galaxy 2, though take only one hit to defeat and use the Boomerang Bros.' voice from Super Mario Galaxy 2. Hammer Bros. with blue + Clocks are encountered in Special 8-Bowser. Boomerang Bros. also return.

Hammer Bros. return in New Super Mario Bros. 2. They appear only in World 2-2, as well as four in the third course of Challenge Pack A, one at the start of the second course of Coin Challenge Pack B, fifteen in the first course of the Mystery Adventures Pack, and four in the final section of the first course of the Impossible Pack. Hammer Bros. act like they do in New Super Mario Bros. Wii, though the effects of the Gold Ring turn them into Gold Bros., giving them coins to throw instead of hammers.

Hammer Bros. are enemies in New Super Mario Bros. U, New Super Luigi U, and their port. They are encountered in Rise of the Piranha Plants only in the former game and in Piranha Gardens and All Aboard! only, in addition to World Coin-1 and World Coin-2 in the Coin Courses, plus other challenges. Hammer Bros. are the same as before.

Hammer Bros. return in Super Mario 3D World and its port. They behave like they do in Super Mario 3D Land, but their hammers are thrown higher and closer to them, like in the 2D games of the Super Mario series. Boomerang Bros. and Fire Bros. also return, as well as cat variants in Lake Lapcat in Bowser's Fury.

Hammer Bros. are course elements in Super Mario Maker, its port, and Super Mario Maker 2. They can be placed as enemies in any of the game styles, being given unique sprites for the Super Mario World style. Hammer Bros. can be eaten by Yoshi, unlike before, with a hammer being spit out afterward. Hammer Bros. with wings applied to them can jump higher. Besides Hammer Bros. are the returning Sledge Bros. and Fire Bros., with the latter being in the Super Mario 3D World game style of Super Mario Maker 2 only.
An unused death animation for them in the New Super Mario Bros. U style can be found in the files of Super Mario Maker.

Hammer Bros. are enemies in Super Mario Odyssey. They are revealed to have blue spiky hair with yellow tips. Hammer Bros. are encountered in the Dark Side; Metro Kingdom; Luncheon Kingdom, wearing chef hats and throwing frying pans; and Moon Kingdom, wearing white top hats. The Super Mario Bros. iteration of Hammer Bros. appear in some 8-bit segments in the Cloud Kingdom and Luncheon Kingdom. A Hammer Bro is vulnerable to being captured if its headwear is removed by Cappy. As a Hammer Bro, Mario can throw hammers to attack, not unlike the Hammer Mario form, and can hit ? Blocks; a captured Hammer Bro in the Luncheon Kingdom can destroy blocks of cheese with its frying pans.

Hammer Bros. reappear in Super Mario Bros. Wonder. Like in the Super Mario Maker games, they can be eaten by Yoshi.

No Hammer Brothers are part of Bowser's invasion force at the start of Super Mario Bros.: Peach-hime Kyūshutsu Dai Sakusen!, but one does appear later on. This Hammer Brother (which, depending on the selected scene, is inconsistently depicted as both rather large and completely to-scale) is assigned to guard a cave where a recurring pair of Goombas trap Mario, Luigi, and Kibidango. However, Luigi (who was searching for coins at the time) digs an escape tunnel, and they escape from the Hammer Bro without being caught. In a last-ditch attempt to retrieve the prisoners, the Hammer Bro throws hammers at a cliff that Mario, Luigi, and Kibidango are trekking across, and causes the top of the cliff that Kibidango and Mario are on to fall, smashing the area that the Hammer Bro is on and burying him beneath several rocks.
Robed, book-carrying Hammer Brothers are later seen acting as singers during Bowser and Peach's wedding towards the end of the film, and another Hammer Brother is seen applying makeup to Princess Peach for the said event.

Hammer Bros. appear in the Super Mario anime series. In Super Mario Momotarō, two elderly Hammer Brothers play the role as the adoptive parents of Mario and the parents of Princess Peach. They are called Ojīsan and Obāsan, the Japanese words for grandfather and grandmother.

Two twin Hammer Brothers appear in the episodes "Do You Princess Toadstool Take this Koopa...?" and "The Trojan Koopa" of The Super Mario Bros. Super Show! They resemble Koopa Troopas, but with pinker face, yellow spots, helmets, and hammers. The Hammer Brothers in "Do You Princess Toadstool Take this Koopa...?" accidentally hit each other on the head with their hammers while intending to target Mario and Luigi. The only episode of The Super Mario Bros. Super Show! where Hammer Brothers have a speaking role is "The Trojan Koopa," where they are guards of King Koopa's island fortress.

Hammer Brothers appear in the episodes "Oh, Brother!" and "Toddler Terrors of Time Travel" of The Adventures of Super Mario Bros. 3. Their design was altered to resemble theirs in Super Mario Bros. 3. Two Hammer Brothers in "Oh, Brother!" apprehend Mario after he is pulled into the dungeon. The Hammer Brothers in "Toddler Terrors of Time Travel" put onboard the Doom Ship; one in particular struggles to carry the crate, contrary to one carrying four at once. 

Hammer Brothers are antagonists in the stories "The Fish That Should've Gotten Away" and "The Kingdom Enquirer" of the Nintendo Comics System. In the former, Hammer Brothers are part of the crowd of monsters who chase Mario, and in the latter, several Hammer Brothers bother Toad at one point.

A pair of Hammer Brothers bring Luigi to Bowser in Koopa Capers after a flying carpet deposits him outside Bowser's Castle. If Luigi decides to look around the castle for clues about Wendy O. Koopa's disappearance, Bowser tries to call in a Hammer Brother to act as an escort for him, but Luigi declines the offer.
While traveling through the Koopahari Desert in Pipe Down!, the Mario Brothers bring up a previous close call with some Hammer Brothers during a past visit to the region. 
In Dinosaur Dilemma, two Hammer Brothers can be found sleeping in Bowser's Castle by Mario and Yoshi, and are woken up by their cuckoo clock as the two try to sneak out of the room. Depending on how the reader solves the accompanying puzzle, the Hammer Brothers either knock the heroes out and make a meal out of them, or their hammer blows keep missing, and weaken the floor to the point that they go falling through it while Mario and Yoshi escape.
In Flown the Koopa, if the reader chooses to have Luigi be the head of a Brachiosaurus costume the Mario Brothers don, they run into a Tyrannosaurus Rex. Depending on how the accompanying puzzle is solved, the T-Rex can turn out to be two disguised Hammer Brothers, who see through the Mario Bros.' costume, use some rubber cement to seal them in it, and capture them with the intent of making a meal out of the two.

A Hammer Bro appears in Mario the Juggler, as an enemy exclusive to Game B that throws Mario a heart to juggle. Periodically, it catches the heart and then tosses it back at him.

Hammer Brothers are mini-bosses in Yoshi's Safari. They attack by throwing hammers, which can be countered using the Super Scope. A Hammer Brother takes several hits from the Super Scope to be defeated. Boomerang Brothers and Sledge Brothers also appear.

Hammer Brothers do not appear in Wario Land: Super Mario Land 3, though the Spiked Koopa boss has the Japanese name ｢トゲブロス」 Toge Burosu ("Thorn Bros.") and wears a helmet vaguely like a Hammer Brother.

Hammer Bros. are enemies in Super Mario RPG: Legend of the Seven Stars and its remake. They have large bodies and hammers made of wood. The remake updates them to use their common design while retaining elements such as the black coloring of their shells and helmets, as well as the wooden hammers they wield.
A Hammer Bro appears at the end of Mushroom Way, and Mario must battle him to proceed to Mushroom Kingdom. If Toad has been previously rescued from Goombas and Paratroopas, the Hammer Bro also captures him in his rush to get to the castle, and needs to be saved by Mario. Although only one appears on the field, a second Hammers Bro appears in battle. During the battle, the Hammer Bros. pound Mario with their hammers, and occasionally use the special move Hammer Time, throwing multiple hammers at him. When Mario defeats one of the brothers, the remaining brother uses the move Valor Up to increase his defense. When defeated, they yield a Flower Jar, and leave a Hammer behind.
Later in the game, a green-colored Hammer Bro named Dr. Topper appears in Bowser's Keep, which has been taken over by the Smithy Gang; Dr. Topper is not an enemy. Instead, he blocks Mario's progress through Bowser's Keep unless Mario solves his various puzzles and riddles.

A Hammer Bro is a non-playable character in the minigame Hammer Drop in Mario Party. This is the first time they are depicted wearing shoes. A Hammer Bro is seen riding a cloud, dropping coins, coin bags, and hammers.

A Hammer Bro is a non-playable character in the minigame Deep Sea Salvage in Mario Party 2. It is on the ship throwing coins, coin bags and mines.

Hammer Bros. appear in the minigames Awful Tower, Puddle Paddle, and Parasol Plummet in Mario Party 3. They throw Coins and hammers.

Hammer Bros. appear in Mario Party 5. One is part of the Hammer Bro Orb, which causes the victim to lose ten coins. One is the referee in the minigame Fight Cards. The game standardized their design.

Hammer Bro is a non-playable character in Mario Party Advance. He is encountered at the Mushroom Field. Hammer Bro is a world-renowned hammer thrower and is fond of challenges. When first visited, Hammer Bro asks the player what their reason is for visting. If questioned, Hammer Bro says that the Mushroom Field is for improving one's hammer throwing abilities, before boasting his skill at using hammers. Before the competition starts, Hammer Bro shows the player character how to throw a hammer. The Hammer Bro is impressed when the player manages to throw farther, and he gives them the Mini B-Ball. Besides the character, several Hammer Bros. appear in the background of Hammergeddon.

Hammer Bros. are obstacles in the minigame Hammer Spammer and a part of the Hammer Bro Orb in Mario Party 7. The Hammer Bros. throw hammers from separate platforms throughout Hammer Spammer. The Hammer Bro of the Hammer Bro Orb acts the same, except the player character who placed it receives coins.

Hammer Bro is an unlockable playable character in Mario Party 8. He is unlocked by completing the Star Battle Arena in Bowser's Warped Orbit if he is the opponent selected by Bowser.

Hammer Bro is a boss in Story mode of Mario Party DS. He is encountered in Toadette's Music Room. Hammer Bro is fought in the minigame Hammer Chime if the player is ranked the Super Star. Hammer Bro in Hammer Chime beats three drums before the first hit, four before the second, and five before the third, with the player attempting to copy each of them. Hammer is an obstacle on the board, hitting one of the big bongo drums if the player character lands on them, sending them flying.

Hammer Bro is a non-playable character and the likeness of the "Nail Shell" constellation in Mario Party 9. He is the more common host of the Battle minigames than Fire Bro. Hammer Bro takes three Mini Stars from each player and has either the captain or the player in last to choose a minigame. He redistributes the Mini Stars to the player characters after the minigame, depending on the results.

Hammer Bros. cameo in the minigames Match Faker and Tap Dash in Mario Party: Island Tour.

Hammer Bro is a non-playable character in Mario Party 10. He is the same as in Mario Party 9, except he takes five Mini Stars from each player.

Hammer Bro is a non-playable character in the minigame Pinball Brawl in Mario Party: Star Rush.

Hammer Bro is a non-playable character in Mario Party: The Top 100. He appears when a board event happens in Minigame Match, where players steal coins from another player.

Hammer Bro is a playable character in Super Mario Party. His special Dice Block can roll a 1 (1/3 chance), a 5 (1/2 chance), or give three coins.

Hammer Bro. appear as non-playable characters in Super Mario Party Jamboree. In the minigame Slappy-Go-Round, one Hammer Bro uses his hammer to signify the beginning and ending of the minigame by striking a bell. Additional Hammer Bros appear in the audience of the minigame DK's Konga Line.

In the first two games of the Super Smash Bros. series, Hammer Bros. only make a background appearance. In Super Smash Bros., Hammer Bros. appear in the background of the Mushroom Kingdom stage. Similarly, in Super Smash Bros. Melee, Hammer Bros. in the background of the game's version of Mushroom Kingdom.
Since Super Smash Bros. Brawl, a Hammer Bro has appeared as an Assist Trophy character throughout the Super Smash Bros. series Once released from the Assist Trophy, the Hammer Bro throws hammers at the opponents, damaging them. In Super Smash Bros. Brawl, the Hammer Bro is invincible, like with most other Assist Trophy characters. In Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS / Wii U and Super Smash Bros. Ultimate, Hammer Bro can be attacked, and if it takes enough damage, Hammer Bro flips upside-down and falls off-screen, similarly to how they act when defeated in Super Mario Bros.
Hammer Bros. appear in a few of the single-player campaigns throughout the series. In Super Smash Bros. Brawl, Hammer Bros. are enemies in The Subspace Emissary. One appears to have helped steal Donkey Kong's banana hoard and is tracked down by Donkey Kong and Diddy Kong. The Hammer Bros. can be damaged and defeated, unlike their Assist Trophy counterpart. In Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS, Hammer Bros. are enemies in Smash Run mode, where they behave almost identically to their Assist Trophy counterparts, except defeating them in this mode causes them to bounce around rather than fall off-screen immediately.
In Super Smash Bros. Ultimate, Hammer Bro appears as an Advanced-class Grab-type primary spirit, which grants the user slightly increased jump height. In the corresponding spirit battle, the player has to fight Yoshi on the Golden Plains stage, with the Hammer Bro Assist Trophy appearing when the opponent is highly damaged. The core extracted from a Hammer Bro spirit can be used with a Reporter & Wrestler core to summon Masked Dedede's spirit.

In Paper Mario, Hammer Bros., along with Koopatrols and Magikoopas, are the elite of Bowser's forces. In this game, Hammer Bros. attack Mario by either throwing one hammer at him or several, weak hammers at him. Hammer Bros.' attacks can occasionally shrink Mario on hit, reducing his Attack power for the duration. 
A Hammer Bro can be first encountered in Paper Mario in the Shy Guy's Toy Box, if Princess Peach tells Bowser and Kammy Koopa that one of the things that Mario fears most is a Hammer Bro, Kammy Koopa later warps a Hammer Bro into the Shy Guy's Toy Box to guard a treasure chest. Hammer Bros. are also encountered throughout Bowser's Castle, where they act as guards, attacking Mario if he approaches. Additionally, a Hammer Bro by the name of Mr. Hammer runs a quiz called the 64th Trivia Quiz-Off, in which Princess Peach participates.

Hammer Bros. return in Paper Mario: The Thousand-Year Door. They are encountered mainly in Rogueport Underground after beating Chapter 5, as well as in Twilight Town, during Bowser and Kammy's attack on the area. Hammer Bros. attack identically as as in Paper Mario, but lose the ability to shrink Mario. Also, in Bowser's first scenario, two Hammer Bros. converse, with one of them referring to something he witnessed where Bowser was apparently swooning over a portrait of Princess Peach, only for the other Hammer Bro to attempt to hint that he should stop talking as Bowser is right behind him. Although Bowser claims that the story was funny and beckons the surprised Hammer Bro to continue, both deny that he was funny. Hammer Bros. are sometimes part of the audience, and if Mario fails the action command of a hammer attack, they can prepare to throw their hammer at him.
There are some other Hammer Bros. Hamma Jamma has a team at the Glitz Pit is with his two brothers, Bamma, a Boomerang Bro and Flare, a Fire Bro. Hamma Jamma also speaks of his father and even his grandfather on occasion, the former of which he mentions is a Business Bro.

Hammer Bros. return in Super Paper Mario. Most have been hypnotized by Nastasia into serving Count Bleck. A few in The Bitlands still serve Bowser. Hammer Bros. also appear in the Flipside Pit of 100 Trials. The game introduces a shadowy counterpart, Dark Hammer Bro. There is a specific Hammer Bro and a Koopa private who help Princess Peach at Castle Bleck.

Hammer Bros. return in Paper Mario: Sticker Star. They are encountered in most worlds. Hammer Bros. attack by throwing hammers in the air to hit Mario from above or by throwing them straight at him. The hammer throw attack can come at Mario very fast so the player must be prepared for this attack. This attack as well can throw off timing by either blocking too early and the Hammer Bro waits for at least two seconds or Hammer Bros. can also throw the hammer before the player even has a chance to block for one second. Hammer Bros. also toss hammers outside of battle, which also damages Mario if he is hit. A glitch in the game has one Hammer Bro in Shy Guy Jungle standing in mid-air. Along with Hammer Bros., Snifits, Spinies and Scaredy Rats are the enemies that can throw off timing.

Hammer Bros. return in Paper Mario: Color Splash. They are the same as in the previous game. The first Hammer Bro is encountered in The Golden Coliseum, and one in the same area rides one of the three chariots during the Iggy Koopa battle, called Chariot Bro. Two Small Hammer Bros. attack Mario when he is about to get the second Mini Paint Star in Sacred Forest. Circus variations of Hammer Bros., called Juggler Bro, and Boomerang Bros., called Circus Bro, appear in Mossrock Theater and the Emerald Circus. A Hammer Bro is the third-round opponent in Roshambo Temple #4. The last Hammer Bro is fought in the black paint mixing room of Black Bowser's Castle, also having another in the background. Fire Bros., Ice Bros., Boomerang Bros., and Sledge Bros. reappear.

Hammer Bros. are allies, while origami Hammer Bros. are enemies, in Paper Mario: The Origami King. A Hammer Bro attacks using either the usual Hammer Throw or the added Super Bro Throw, the latter involving it grabbing another enemy and using them as a projectile, defeating the Hammer Bro in the process. A friendly Hammer Bro in Shangri-Spa mentions that Hammer Bros.' hammers "aren't just for throwing", as it is using the hammer to fix part of a small bridge. Boomerang Bros., Fire Bros., and Ice Bros. return, all of which can use Super Bro Throw.

A Hammer Bro cameos in Mario Kart: Super Circuit. It uses its design from Paper Mario. The Hammer Bro is within the crowd at the awards ceremony.

Hammer Bro was originally planned to be playable in Mario Kart Wii along with Koopa Paratroopa, Petey Piranha and a Mii Outfit C (which in turn would have marked his debut as a playable character in the Mario Kart series), but was taken out of the final game. Hammer Bros. are spectators in courses such as Mario Circuit, usually with Shy Guys.

Hammer Bros. are spectators on Toad Circuit in Mario Kart 7.

Hammer Bros. are spectators in Bowser's Castle and 3DS Neo Bowser City in Mario Kart 8 and Mario Kart 8 Deluxe.

A Hammer Bro appears in Mario Kart Tour as the opponent in the Vs. Mega challenge of the Rosalina Cup in the Baby Rosalina Tour. He uses his Hammers as his special item for the entirety of the race (although he did use a Mushroom at the very start).
He was also teased through the reflection of Baby Rosalina (Detective)'s magnifying glass in the splash art and at the start of the trailer for the Baby Rosalina Tour. Hammer Bro was added as a playable character since the Hammer Bro Tour, which began on March 25, 2020, also including a playable Boomerang Bro, Ice Bro, and Fire Bro. He is classified as a Super character with his Hammers reprising their role as his special item. His emblem consists of a cartoon drawing of his head facing left, albeit lacking the eyes, similar to Dry Bones'.
Hammer Bro is the selected driver for some bonus challenges, including a Ring Race on RMX Rainbow Road 1 and a Time Trial on 3DS Shy Guy Bazaar R.

Hammer Bros. are enemies in Mario & Luigi: Superstar Saga and Mario & Luigi: Superstar Saga + Bowser's Minions. The original version gives them white pupil-less eyes, a more hunched and somewhat portly posture, and no shoes. Hammer Bros. are encountered in Bowser's Castle. They assist Gunner Guys and Boos, which are the only ways of encountering them. Hammer Bros. are healed by fire whilst vulnerable to thunder. Hammer Bros. attack by throwing hammers, jumping if it targets Luigi, otherwise it targets Mario. A Hammer Bro's hammer attack is countered with the targeted Mario Bro's hammer. After losing at least half of its HP, a Hammer Bro begins to throw two hammers while attacking. Variants debuting include Border Bros., Beanerang Bro (named Boomerang Bro in the original), Yo Bro, the Limbo Bro and their Elite counterparts, and Chomp Bro.
Hammer Bros. are enemies and allies in the Minion Quest: The Search for Bowser mode. Hammer Bros. are Ranged troopers and attack by throwing their hammers. Their Special Skill, Rain of Pain, involves them throwing multiple hammers at surrounding foes. They team up with the Hammerhead Bros. in their first encounter at "For the Love of Hammers." They fight Captain Goomba's squad to decide whether to join them or not. The Hammer Bros. are confident enough that their hammer crafting can create the Ultra Hammer.

Only one pair of Hammer Bros. appears in Mario & Luigi: Partners in Time. The Shroobs brainwash them with mind-controlling antenna and order them to guard the Vim Factory. While mind-controlled, the Hammer Bros. introduce themselves as the L33T HAMM3R BROZ., and speak in the Internet "language" known as "1337-speak" (pronounced "leet speak"), as well as with capital letters. In the Japanese version, they speak completely in katakana, as opposed to hiragana, and in the Korean version, their speech is full of spelling and spacing errors. In French versions, they drop the 1337 aspect of their speech (with the exception of their names, which still render the "L33T" part) in favor of SMS-like speech containing various spelling errors. In German versions, they do not speak in 1337, but in broken sentences. The Spanish translation of the game removes the 1337 aspect of the characters entirely, and the only different speech pattern is robotic all-caps. It is possible that this happened due to difficulties with localization, as 1337-speak is extremely uncommon among online Spanish communities. One of them introduces themselves as the "L33T HAMM3R BROZ." due to the way they speak in the English version.
When Mario, Luigi, Baby Mario, and Baby Luigi arrive in the Vim Factory, they are instantly confronted by the "L33T HAMM3R BROZ." After Mario and Luigi are captured by the factory's automated defenses, Baby Mario and Baby Luigi are forced to battle the Hammer Bros. In battle, the Hammer Bros. have 100 HP (90 in non-American versions) and attack by using the Knockback Bros. technique, a Bros. Attack from Mario & Luigi: Superstar Saga. Using his hammer, one Hammer Bro smashes the other into a ball, then hits him into either Baby Mario or Baby Luigi. To avoid the attack, the babies have to jump over the ball Hammer Bro as he approaches. Sometimes, the Hammer Bro's hammer breaks, sending the ball bouncing towards a baby. In this case, the baby brother should not jump, as the balled brother simply bounces over the baby's head.

After one Hammer Bro is defeated (or if one of the Hammer Bros. is unable to attack), the other one is forced to fight by himself. To attack, the sole Hammer Bro tosses spinning hammers that roll on the ground. To defend against this attack, the Baby Mario Bros. have to jump over the hammers as they approach. To determine which baby he is aiming for, the player needs to watch what he does before throwing. If he hops, he throws it at Baby Mario, and if he rolls his eyes around, he throws it at Baby Luigi. Ultimately, Baby Mario and Baby Luigi have to work together and defeat the second Hammer Bro. Unlike most bosses in Mario & Luigi: Partners in Time, they use the same defeat animation of a normal enemy; the same thing happens with Junior Shrooboid, the Shroobs, and Kamek. Also, in the Player's Guide, the word "boss" is missing from the stat box.
In defeating the Hammer Bros., the Baby Mario Bros. destroyed their mind-control antennas. Free from Shroob influence, the Hammer Bros. begin to speak normally again. They also comment on the strange manner of speaking they were just using. Grateful for being released, the Hammer Bros. give the babies two spare hammers they were holding, and teach them how to use the hammer and Baby Drill.
When the babies go into the vents and encounter a Spiny Shroopa, the Hammer Bros. teach them how to use the hammers in battle. Later, when the babies rescue Mario and Luigi and encounter two more Spiny Shroopas, the Hammer Bros. return and show how to use the hammer while piggybacking in battle.

Hammer Bros. do not appear in Mario & Luigi: Dream Team, but Boomerang Bros. and Fire Bros. are encountered as enemies in Somnom Woods and Neo Bowser Castle.

Hammer Bros. are enemies in Mario & Luigi: Paper Jam. Some Hammer Bros. steal all of the Trio's Battle Command Blocks at one point, prompting them to recover it. Hammer Bros. can only be counterattacked before receiving the Flee comman. Hammer Bros. are commonly encountered in the Twinsy Tropics Dungeon, as well as stronger variants on the clouds above Sunbeam Plains. A Hammer Bro is also fought in Neo Bowser Castle. Hammer Bros. attack in battle by throwing hammers at the targeted player character, sometimes jumping while doing so; if not, the hammer is avoidable by jumping. After throwing hammers, the Hammer Bro charges at the target, and take damage if jumped on. A Hammer Bro sometimes attacks by throwing a hammer into the air with another of its kind or its introduced paper counterpart; they sometimes swap hammers before throwing. If a Paper Hammer Bro helps, their hammer falls after the Hammer Bro's, unlike if two are present. The attack is countered by the targeted bro's hammer.

Hammer Bros. are enemies and recruitable allies in the Bowser Jr.'s Journey mode in Mario & Luigi: Bowser's Inside Story + Bowser Jr.'s Journey. They are weak against Parabones.

Two Hammer Brothers are enemies in Dance Dance Revolution: Mario Mix. They block the entrance of Mushroom Park until the player wins in a dance-off against them.

A Hammer Bro appears as a playable character in both games of the Mario Baseball series: Mario Superstar Baseball and Mario Super Sluggers. Both games also feature a Fire Bro and a Boomerang Bro as playable character, though both of them are treated as palette swaps of Hammer Bro, and all three of them are teammates of Bowser in each game's Challenge mode. Hammer Bro uses a large hammer as his baseball bat. While Hammer Bro and Boomerang Bro use a hammer and boomerang respectively for batting, Fire Bro uses a standard bat with painted flames on it.
In Mario Superstar Baseball, Hammer Bro can be unlocked by completing Challenge Mode as Bowser. Fire Bro and Boomerang Bro function as separate characters, but statistically are nearly identical to Hammer Bros. (barring Fire Bro's run speed, which is slightly lower than the other two). Boomerang Bro puts a noticeable curve on all his hits, much like Boo and King Boo.
In Mario Super Sluggers, Hammer Bro, along with Boomerang Bro and Fire Bro, are now playable from the start, each exhibiting more varied stats than before. They have new fielding moves, during which they throw their weapon out a short distance and catch the ball. All of them use their standard voice introduced in Super Mario Strikers.

Hammer Bros. are enemies in Super Princess Peach. They are led by Army Hammer Bro, and kidnap Mario and the others at Peach's Castle in the opening. A. F. H. Bros. return, and both it and Hammer Bro received Calm Hammer Bro and C. A. F. H. Bro varieties, respectively.

Hammer Bros. are teammates in Super Mario Strikers. They are billed offensive players, despite lacking distinction in gameplay.

Hammer Bros. are teammates in Mario Strikers Charged. They have hammers in a sling on their back. Hammer Bros. are billed offensive players, as before. Hammer Bros. have high shooting and passing capabilities, whilst lacking the ability to tackle and being slow. A Hammer Bro always uses a hammer when either shooting, tackling, hitting, faking, or using his Skillshot, the Hammer Throw. Hammer Bro's Deke involves him smashing a giant hammer onto the ground, blasting away whoever is hit.

Hammer Bros. appear only twice in the Mario Golf series, both times as non-playable characters. In Mario Golf: World Tour, Hammer Bros. are featured in the Castle Club mode. In Mario Golf: Super Rush, there are Hammer Bros. scattered around Bonny Greens's practice area.

Hammer Bros. return in Captain Toad: Treasure Tracker and its ports. They are encountered in Drift-Along Canyon, Battle Tower Blitz (one of them jumps between Goomba Towers), and the port-exclusive Uptown, Downtown. If interacted with using a pointer/touch screen, Hammer Bros. jump to a new position immediately after being no longer stunned. A Hammer Bros. cannot be stunned while jumping. 

Hammer Bro is a selectable sidekick in soccer and baseball in Mario Sports Superstars. It is billed a Power type. Boomerang Bros. are alternate colors in soccer and baseball while Fire Bros. appear in baseball only.

In the Super Mario Mash-up for Minecraft, Hammer Bros. replace Zombies, and Hammer Bros. in Villager's clothing replace the Zombie Villagers. Hammer Bro is one of the usable skins.

Hammer Bros. are opponents in Mario Tennis Aces. They are encountered during the missions Sure Shot Challenge (Advanced) and Defeat Bowser's Minions! of Inferno Island; in the former, a Hammer Bro helps two Fire Bros. with pitching, and in the latter, ten throw hammers at the player character as they deflect them, defeating the Hammer Bros. and causing Fire Bros. to appear afterward. Hammer Bros. are members of the audience, with some wearing caps and shirts for the participating characters.

Hammer Bros. are assistants in Dr. Mario World. Their stage mode skill increases the float time of floating objects such as capsules, bubbles, and keys by a multiplier. Their versus mode skill grants a chance that a column is cleared in the player's stage when their opponent uses a skill.

Hammer Bros. appear in The Super Mario Bros. Movie as a part of Bowser's army.

Hammer Bros. are yellow Koopas with green shells, cream-colored belly plates, and, since Mario Party, green shoes (although they sometimes are barefoot), as well as green and white helmets (though the colors change depending on the variant). They look like Koopa Troopas, but have a taller stature, smaller blue eyes and a lighter-colored muzzle. Hammer Bros. are notably always armed with black or gray hammers tied to wooden handles with rope. In Super Mario Bros. 3, Hammer Bros. wear black shells and helmets, while their hammers are slightly less detailed. In Super Smash Bros. Brawl, Hammer Bros. are given a more realistic appearance than their Super Mario depiction, having a monotone appearance, as well as highly detailed hammers and helmets. In Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS / Wii U and Super Smash Bros. Ultimate, however, Hammer Bros. have a vibrant, cartoonish appearance with less detailed hammers and helmets; in the latter, their helmets and shoes have a lighter green color. In the DIC Entertainment Super Mario cartoons, Hammer Bros. have drastically altered appearances, due to appearing with much darker skin tones, smaller body proportions, gray goggles, and shinier hammers.
In the first three Paper Mario games, Hammer Bros. are given an altered design, which has them wear blue helmets instead of their standard green ones and have more rotund body proportions resembling those of Koopa Troopas. In Paper Mario: The Thousand-Year Door, Hammer Bros. are given red shoes and spiked armbands, which reappear in Super Paper Mario. From Paper Mario: Sticker Star onward, however, Hammer Bros. use their current-era design instead, while appearing with a paper outline.

Hammer Bros. possess superior agility, due to jumping as high as Mario (if not as high as Luigi) and quickly traversing small areas from hopping. Hammer Bros. hop very frequently, to the point where they hop while idling. In the way of weaponry, Hammer Bros. use black or gray construction hammers, though Super Mario RPG: Legend Of The Seven Stars and the Paper Mario games depict them with wooden mallets instead. In most games, Hammer Bros. throw their hammers at lower angles and farther distances, or higher angles at closer distances. The former games have Hammer Bros. smack their adversaries with their mallets as a melee attack; exclusively to the Paper Mario series, Hammer Bros. throw a barrage of smaller, weaker hammers, or a hammer with magical abilities like shrinking. Hammer Bros.' Skill Shot in Mario Strikers Charged has them attack the opposing team with a giant hammer, to daze them.

In most older Super Mario games, Hammer Bros. are completely silent due to technical limitations. Most of the Super Mario RPGs and spin-offs give Hammer Bros. in-game text so others can understand what they are saying; in Super Mario RPG, Hammer Bros. appear to speak with Brooklyn accents, often saying "ya" instead of "you." In the DIC Super Mario cartoons, Hammer Bros. were given intelligible voice acting with Brooklyn accents. Hammer Bros. also speak intelligibly in various Super Mario comics, as well as Super Mario-kun. In contemporary Super Mario games, Hammer Bros. (and their variants) are portrayed by Motoki Takagi, who provided them with grunts, yells, and even a few lines such as "Let's go." While they generally have a high-pitched voice, they have a deeper voice in Super Mario Galaxy 2.