Hammers appear in the Super Mario franchise as items and objects, usually in the form of weapons used by either player characters and enemies. They first appear in Donkey Kong, in which they are used to smash barrels and enemies. Hammers are usually thrown by the Hammer Bros. and other enemies. However, Mario and Luigi have been known to effectively wield hammers in combat. The item has appeared in every single role-playing game of the Super Mario franchise to date, and in the Paper Mario and Mario & Luigi games, hammer attacks are used as a counterpart to jump attacks. Some enemies cannot be damaged by jump attacks (usually due to having a spiky top), requiring the Mario Bros. to use their hammers instead.

Hammers, also referred to as Invincible Hammers, appear in Donkey Kong, usually in the corners and sometimes only by jumping, and can be used by Mario for a short time to destroy the barrels thrown by Donkey Kong, Fireballs created from flaming oil drums, cement tubs in 50m, and Fires in 100 m. Mario cannot climb or jump while wielding a Hammer, and touching an enemy or obstacle from any side other than the hammer still damages Mario.
Hammers in the Game Boy version can defeat all enemies, and Super Hammers can even break brick walls. Hammers can be thrown upwards by Mario, including up onto the next platform above for him to then pick up again. Any Hammer that makes contact with the floor disappears instantly.
Donkey Kong no Ongaku Asobi would have featured Pauline using a hammer, but the game went unreleased.

A hammer appears in the Saturday Supercade episode Gorilla Gangster, where it at one point is used by Mario to destroy a pickle barrel thrown by Donkey Kong.

Hammers appear in VS. Wrecking Crew as objects used by Mario and Luigi to damage environmental objects or to competitively knock each other to the bottom of the stage. The home console release, Wrecking Crew, introduced the antagonistic hammer-wielding Foreman Spike and the powerful Golden Hammer which can destroy objects with a single hit.
In Wrecking Crew '98, players use hammers to destroy panels that are then sent to their opponent.
The Wrecking Crew minigame in WarioWare: Twisted! involves using the hammer to get rid of Eggplant Men. The Wrecking Crew minigame in WarioWare Gold features Mario having to smash walls to find hidden coins while competing against Foreman Spike.

Hammers in the Super Mario series appear mainly as objects thrown by Hammer Bros. to attack Mario. Hammers are thrown by Bowser during his battles in Super Mario Bros., Super Mario Bros.: The Lost Levels, and New Super Mario Bros. 2, plus the fakes in Worlds 6 and 7 of the former two games. Super Mario Bros.: The Lost Levels also has Bowser's Brother, who can throw hammers in Worlds 8-4 and 9-3. Hammers are used by all bosses in Worlds A through D in the Super Mario All-Stars version of Super Mario Bros.: The Lost Levels. Hammers thrown by Hammer Bros in New Super Mario Bros. Wii, Super Mario Galaxy 2, and New Super Mario Bros. U can be eaten by a Yoshi and spit out to defeat enemies. Hammers in Super Mario Odyssey can be thrown by Mario if he captures a Hammer Bro.

Hammers in Super Mario Bros. Special appear as temporary items and are used like in Donkey Kong except Mario can now jump while using it. Mario can still keep it after being damaged. A glitch can sometimes cause Mario to "drop" his Hummer which can be picked up again with its expiration time reset. They are listed in the ending as "Hummer".

Hammers in Super Mario Bros. 3 can be thrown by Mario and Luigi while wearing Hammer Suit and defeat most foes, including Thwomps, Boos, Lava Bubbles, Boom Boom, and Bowser, in one to three hits. Hammers can also destroy boulders on the world map, sometimes mandatory to access a part of the map. A hammer is usable in the upper right corner of Desert Land to open up an area that contains a Toad House with a Frog Suit, and a Fire Bro battle containing the last Recorder.
Hammers appear in Super Mario World as objects thrown by Amazing Flyin' Hammer Brothers, and Mario also uses one to destroy Lemmy Koopa's Castle in Vanilla Dome.
A magical hammer is used by Morton Koopa Jr. in New Super Mario Bros. U to send Big Pokey segments towards Mario.
Hammers in Super Mario 3D World are first seen in the starting cutscene, where Mario and Luigi wield them and wrenches while fixing the Clear Pipe. Hammers are also used by some Sprixie Princesses while constructing Clear Pipes, but some use wrenches instead. 
Hammers appear in Super Mario Run as objects used to clear Thwomps in Kingdom Builder.
In Super Mario Maker 2, the unlockable Super Mario 3D World style-exclusive Super Hammer turns Mario into Builder Mario, which lets him swing a hammer to break Hard Blocks and defeat enemies; the hammer attack is nearly as strong as the Hammer Suit's hammers.

A hammer is often used by Mario in the German Club Nintendo comics. A hammer in "Super Mario: Verloren in der Zeit" is used by Mario to smash his alarm clock, due to him dreaming of an alarm clock-looking time machine. A hammer resembling a Super Hammer appears in "Mario's Picross" as an object used by Mario to smash a wall in a pyramid, after reaching a dead end.

A hammer in Mario & Wario is held by Wanda during the bonus minigames after most stage areas instead of her usual wand. The hammer can whack Wario's plane for coins, for up to forty coins before Wario flees.

Hammers appear in Super Mario RPG: Legend of the Seven Stars as weapons used by Mario. After Mario beats the Hammer Bros. blocking the exit of Mushroom Way, Mario receives a Hammer apparently dropped by them with the Hammer Bros. insignia on it. When equipped, the weapon adds ten attack points to Mario's attack rating, the weakest of his weapons, though each attack can have a variance of one point above or below this. The other Hammers that Mario can use include the Super Hammer, Masher, Lucky Hammer, and Ultra Hammer. When the Hammer is used in a Timed Hit, Mario swings it up and down twice. The standard Hammer can be sold for 35 coins, but cannot be replaced.

Hammers appear in Mario Party as melee weapons in the minigames Bash 'n' Cash and Coin Block Bash. In the former, the three players are given squeaky hammers, which is used to attack the single player in the Bowser Suit to cause them to drop coin bags or coins. In the latter, a heavy hammer made of wood and metal is given to the single player that can be used to break Brick Blocks in one blow or to stun opposing players by either squashing them or to knock them away; that hammer can be knocked away from the single player for another player to use. Hammers thrown by Hammer Bros. also appear in minigames that they appear in, namely Hammer Drop and Mario Bandstand, where in the former a Hammer Bros. occasionally throws hammers from the cloud, while in the latter, failing a beat might cause a hammer to be thrown to the offending player.

A hammer in Mario Party 2 is used by the single player during the minigame Lights Out to knock out the three players each wielding a light bulb. A comparatively heavier hammer in the Item minigame Hammer Slammer is used to knock a lever so that the shuttle is sprung upwards to an item that the player will obtain.

Hammers appear in Mario Party 3 with varying roles. A hammer is a weapon used by Toad while he is a partner. Squeaky hammers appear in Pipe Cleaners as melee weapons to knock the Baby Bowsers emerging from any of the four pipes. A squeaky hammer also appears in Swing 'n' Swipe, where the single player uses one to hit one of the Baby Bowsers to win the item that the target is holding. Hammers in Parasol Plummet, Puddle Paddle, and Awful Tower are all thrown by Hammer Bros., similarly as in Mario Party. A hammer in Messy Memory is one of the ten items that the player must memorize the placement of.

The only hammer in Mario Party 4 is the MiniMega Hammer item, which provides the same effect as a Mini Mushroom or Mega Mushroom on its target, depending on timing.

Hammers appear in Mario Party 7 with varying roles. Hammers appear prominently in the 8-player minigame Hammer Spammer as obstacles thrown by Hammer Bros. that must be avoided by players, or periodically, two giant hammers, which have a shadow indicator where they will appear. Hammer Spammer also takes place on a giant hammer platform. Hammers appear in the 8-player minigame Duct & Cover, where each player uses one to cover any leaks in a pipe. Hammers in the battle minigame Monty's Revenge are wielded by Monty Moles, which attempt to knock any players who pop up from one of the holes. Hammers in the 4-player minigame Pokey Pummel are wielded by players each having to knock away every segment of the Pokey next to them.

Hammers appear in Mario Party 9 within the minigame Spike Strike, where players use them whack objects at the giant Spike, worth one point per hit, and a golden hammer in each round can be used to earn three points instead.

A hammer in Mario Party: Island Tour is used by Bowser in the Bowser Challenge at Bowser's Peculiar Peak when players reach him.

Hammers in Mario Party 10 appear engraved on two blocks in the north-western corner of the Donkey Kong Board. They are shown around a sprite of an oil drum, all resembling their sprite from the original Donkey Kong game.

Hammers in Mario Party Superstars have varying roles. A hammer appears in the Pop background of the Mario Party Card, representing the item minigame Hammer Slammer. Hammers also appear in some returning minigames, retaining their function from the minigames' original iteration. Examples include Hammer Drop and Parasol Plummet, where hammers are occasionally thrown by Hammer Bros., and Monty's Revenge where Monty Moles each wield a hammer to hit players.

Hammers appear in Super Mario Party Jamboree in the Bowser Kaboom Squad mode. Stronger hammers known as Iron Hammers also appear in the mode.

The Hammer from Donkey Kong is a powerful item in the Super Smash Bros. series. The player swings the Hammer back and forth repeatedly, and strikes anything upward in its path. The character cannot double jump with it. Very rarely, in Super Smash Bros. Melee onwards, the head of the Hammer can fall off, and the character swings the Hammer's handle back and forth, leaving them completely vulnerable. However, the head acts as an item, and has the same power as the regular thrown item. When the Hammer is used, the Hammer theme from the NES version of Donkey Kong plays. The original arcade music is used in Super Smash Bros. Ultimate. In Super Smash Bros. Ultimate, the visual effect that appears when a hammer collides with an enemy or obstacle in the original game can be seen when an opponent is hit. A much stronger variant originating from Wrecking Crew, the Golden Hammer, also appears as an item from Super Smash Bros. Brawl onward.
When King Dedede grabs a Hammer, he will swing both the item and his own hammer, though only the Hammer item deals damage. Pit and Dark Pit swing the Hammer with only two frames of animation, referencing their animations when using a hammer in their original games (though Dark Pit's is due to being an Echo Fighter of Pit). This also applies to Mr. Game & Watch, although it is because of the way he moves. Wario swings the Hammer from side to side instead of back and forth. Mewtwo uses its telekinetic powers to make the Hammer revolve around it with the head pointed forward. All these quirks apply to the Golden Hammer as well.

A Hammer appears in Paper Mario mainly as an item used by Mario, and is given to him by Goompa when they were trying to break a block obstructing them from returning to Goomba Village. The Hammer got lost in the bushes and had to be found by Mario beforehand. Jr. Troopa is always the first enemy whom Mario battles with using the Hammer. Spy Guys also have Hammers, and these hammer attacks can cause Mario to lose one of his action commands for about four or five turns.
The Hammer is introduced as an alternative in battle, since Jump attacks are not effective toward all enemies, such as toward fiery and spiked enemies. When using the Hammer, the player should tilt the  left until three beeps are heard. On the final beep, letting go of the Control Stick deals extra damage. The Hammer can be used on any enemy on the ground, always inflicting stacked damage, but it cannot reach airborne or ceiling-bound targets unless Mario has the Hammer Throw badge.
The Hammer is usable outside of battle to knock items out of trees and break certain blocks, though the type of Block that Mario can break depends on what type of Hammer he had, since the Hammer has two upgrades, Super Hammer and Ultra Hammer. Yellow Blocks can be broken by any Hammer, Stone Blocks by the Super Hammer and Ultra Hammer, and Metal Blocks by only the Ultra Hammer.

Hammers appear in Paper Mario: The Thousand-Year Door as a default weapon, with the first type once again being wooden. The Hammer retains both of its upgrades, the Super Hammer and Ultra Hammer. The Hammer and its upgrades are functionally similar as in Paper Mario during battle. Hammers can also break items on the world map, with small Yellow Blocks being breakable by any Hammer, big Yellow Blocks by the Super Hammer and Ultra Hammer, and Stone Blocks (big and small) by only the Ultra Hammer. Metal Blocks cannot be broken by any Hammer, unlike in Paper Mario. The move Super Hammer is introduced in this game as the way to destroy big blocks.

In Super Paper Mario, with the help of the Pixl Cudge, every character can attack with a Hammer if the character is on the ground. Similarly, Dark Mario can also use a hammer to attack the player.

In Paper Mario: Sticker Star, Mario obtains the hammer at the beginning of the game, after recovering from Bowser's attack on Decalburg. It can be used in the overworld, and is also required to use the various Hammer stickers in the game. In World 3-7, Rustle Burrow, Mario loses the hammer and cannot use these stickers until he retrieves it.

In Paper Mario: Color Splash, Mario, after apparently having lost his original hammer on the voyage to Prism Island due to Toad accidentally throwing it overboard, finds another hammer on top of a crate in Port Prisma at the beginning of the game. After Huey grants Mario the power of paint, however, it becomes the Paint Hammer.
In battle, the normal Hammer, Eekhammer, Hurlhammer, and Blazehammer return as cards. Additionally, the KO Hammer debuts in this game, working as the Super Hammer move in Paper Mario: The Thousand-Year Door did. Similar to the previous game, hammer cards come in Worn-out (Hammer only), Big (not Worn-out Hammer nor Blazehammer), and Huge (not Worn-out Hammer nor Blazehammer) variations. They also come in multiples, allowing multiple uses of one attack with the same card: x2 (normal and Big Hammers and Eekhammers), x3 (normal and Worn-out Hammers, Eekhammer, and Hurlhammer), and x5 (Worn-out Hammer only).
Morton also uses a giant hammer in battle, which can also burst into flames, but can be put out using the fire extinguisher Thing Card. Also, a Claw Hammer Thing can be found in the Super Mario Bros. 3 section of the Green Energy Plant (initially looking as it did that game), which deals far more damage to enemies.

The hammer returns in Paper Mario: The Origami King, once again being used as an alternative to Mario's Boots. Mario finds a spare hammer in the dungeon of Peach's Castle after being trapped down there at the start of the game. Its strength gradually increases over the course of the adventure, namely as Mario collects more MAX UP Hearts, but by default, it is slightly stronger than a jump attack. In the overworld, it can be used to rescue folded-up Toads and retrieve confetti from the environment, which can then be used to fill in holes.
In battle, the default hammer is a permanent attack that Mario always has access to, unlike in the previous two games, and hits groups of enemies within a square, four-panel range. Meanwhile, numerous variants of it can be found or purchased and used as alternatives, which break after enough uses. Such variants include the returning Shiny and Flashy ones, as well as normal Hurlhammers and Shiny Hurlhammers, which behave the way they did previously. New ones include the Gold Hammer, which is not only stronger, but also grants Mario extra coins with each hit; the Fire and Ice Hammers, which replace the Burnhammers and Chillhammers from Sticker Star; and the Legendary Hammer, which is even more powerful than the Flashy one, but a lot rarer to compensate. Near the end of the battle with King Olly, Olivia transforms into a hammer.

The Hammer appears in every game of the Mario & Luigi series as items used by the Mario Bros. both during battle and in the overworld. Unlike the battle system from the Paper Mario series, each Hammer upgrade does not affect in-battle damage and attack power.

Hammers appear in Mario & Luigi: Superstar Saga and its remake as objects crafted by the Hammerhead Bros. out of Hoohoo Blocks. They are later upgraded to Super Hammers and, ultimately, Ultra Hammers, like in the Paper Mario series, though in the original game they are no stronger in battle, whilst the remake makes them a little bit stronger. Hammers are used to smash tan-colored rocks (heavily-cracked grey rocks in the remake) in Mario and Luigi's path, though the upgraded hammers can destroy grey- and black-colored rocks (slightly-cracked grey rocks and light brown rocks in the remake) respectively. They are also used to activate special buttons and switches. If the player hits an enemy with a First Strike using the hammer in the overworld, its party will be stunned at beginning of the battle (in the remake, doing this may lower their speed instead).
In battle, Mario or Luigi can do more damage by pressing their respective button when the hammer shakes; this attack has a chance of stunning the victim. Hammers are also used to counterattack certain foes' attacks like a Sharpea's attack or the hammers Rookie throws. If they are held for too long, their heads will fall off (if the player has brewed the fifth drink in the Starbeans Cafe and a Bro. has the Power Grip equipped, that Bro. can hold his hammer for an indefinite amount of time); this mechanic was removed from the remake. Also, during his last two boss fights, Popple can steal a brother's hammer and use it against them; this also prevents them from using any attacks involving hammers (with the exception of Fire Bros. and Advanced Thunder Bros.) for a few turns or when they take it back from Popple in the remake. The Boos in Bowser's Castle can also disable Solo Hammer Actions as well with their attacks.
After Cork and Cask teach them the advanced method of using their hammers, they can use more overworld and battle abilities. If Mario uses it behind Luigi, he buries Luigi; if Luigi uses it behind Mario, he shrinks Mario. However, if the rear brother hits the lead brother over the head with the hammer prior to learning these moves, the latter will get angry at the former. The Mario Bros. also gain the Chopper Bros. and Knockback Bros. Bros. Attacks in battle after learning these moves.

In Mario & Luigi: Partners in Time, two hammers are given to Baby Mario and Baby Luigi by the Hammer Bros. in the Vim Factory. These hammers can be used to tunnel underground to dig under walls and fences, dig up beans, and hit switches, etc. In battle, Baby Mario and Baby Luigi can use their hammers to attack enemies. The hammer can be used overworld to potentially stun enemies for a First Strike. Like in Mario & Luigi: Superstar Saga, the hammer will break if the player guards for too long. Unlike the other Super Mario RPGs, these hammers serve their purpose for the entire game and are never upgraded.
The Action Command for the hammer is the same; the player should press the button when the hammer shakes. If the babies are carried by the Mario Bros. during battle, the player must press the adult bro's button to lift up the baby, then press the respective baby button, dealing more damage.
During the fight with Bowser and Baby Bowser in Thwomp Caverns, Baby Bowser is shown with a hammer, which he uses to knock Bowser into the bros when he is with him, and to launch fireballs into them when Baby Bowser is alone.
At the end of the game, the Babies give the Bros their hammers before leaving to go back to the past in the time machine.

In Mario & Luigi: Bowser's Inside Story and Mario & Luigi: Bowser's Inside Story + Bowser Jr.'s Journey, Mario and Luigi gain a pair of hammers much earlier than in the previous Mario & Luigi games, finding them in Trash Pit, the first area inside Bowser's body. Later, Luigi learns how to turn Mario into Mini-Mario by using his hammer in Pump Works to free Toadsworth, and even later the bros learn how to use the Drill Bros. technique in the Energy Hold. The minigame in the Arm Center involves the use of the hammers in order to hit orbs at a muscle in Bowser's arm.
In battle, hammers are used differently in offensive. Mario or Luigi must press their button at the very last moment before the hammerhead falls. In doing so, an "Excellent" notice is shown on-screen. The hammerhead falls if the player guards for too long in the original game; in the remake, the hammer can be used to guard for an infinite amount of time. Hammers are also used during the Mighty Meteor Special Attack to hit a meteor at enemies.

In Mario & Luigi: Dream Team, a Brock in Mushrise Park lost his hammers that he was supposed to use to smash rocks for his boss, Brickle, and ordered new ones. When Mario and Luigi found the lost hammers, he lets the Bros. keep them. As in other games, hammers are used in the overworld to smash rocks and perform First Strikes, and unlock access to hammer attacks in battle.
Dozing Sands has many Shelltop workers that use hammers. Mario and Luigi learn the Mole Mario and Mini-Mario Bros. Moves when they help two miners fight off some Sandoons. These moves involve Luigi using his hammer against Mario: Mole Mario pushes Mario down into soft surfaces where he can dig while Mini-Mario flattens Mario against hard surfaces so that he can walk through small passageways.
In battle in the real world, the hammer attack is similar to how it works in Mario & Luigi: Bowser's Inside Story. Dream Team makes one change to the mechanics: Mario and Luigi can hold their hammers indefinitely when counter-attacking with no penalty. In the Dream World, Dreamy Luigi makes Mario's hammer attack more powerful. Mario hammers the ground with his hammer, causing a group of Luiginoids to appear and smash the ground in unison with their own hammers. This sends out a shockwave that damages the enemies at the front the most, and the ones at the back the least; if the hammer's head falls off, foes in back will take no damage unless the enemies are close enough on the X axis.
During Giant Battles, the hammer is split into two forms of attack: Hammer Chop and Hammer Uppercut. Hammer Chop is a horizontal swing, while Hammer Uppercut is a vertical swing. They have different Action Commands.
Dream Team also introduces hammers as a form of gear, with a dedicated slot. After obtaining the hammers as a Key Item, Mario and Luigi each equip a Run-Down Hammer. The player can find, receive, or purchase new Hammers, like the Sap Hammer and the Iron-Ball Hammer. These Hammers increase the character's Power when using hammer attacks, and may confer additional benefits to hammer attacks. Bros. Attacks and Luiginary Attacks using hammers also benefit from these Hammer items. Later in the game, the player can obtain DX variations of older Hammers with better stats.
Some bosses use hammers. Sergeant Guy and the Sub-Goombas he transforms into copies of himself can use hammers, which is countered by striking first with the hammer. Bowser Jr. has a hammer, which he uses in a special attack. There are other hammers in the Junior Clown Car, and when Mario and Luigi are riding in it they can be thrown at Bowser Jr. Earthwake and Pi'illodium can transform into hammers as an attack, usually requiring a counterattack with a hammer. The final boss of the game, Dreamy Bowser, uses a giant hammer in an attack, which is also countered with hammers.

In Mario & Luigi: Paper Jam, Mario and Luigi have their hammers from the start, as does Paper Mario. The three of them learn the Trio Move Trio Hammer after they find themselves hindered by large, cracked gray blocks in their path in Doop Doop Dunes after being knocked back by a Big Pokey and Paper Tower Power Pokey. It is executed by pressing , , and  in succession. This results in Luigi slamming his hammer into Mario's and Paper Mario slamming his into Luigi's, the combined force creating massive shockwaves that can break the aforementioned gray blocks, flip objects over, and momentarily stun enemies on the field.
In battle, Mario and Luigi use their hammers the same way they did in Mario & Luigi: Bowser's Inside Story and the Real World of Mario & Luigi: Dream Team. Paper Mario, however, attacks multiple enemies, depending on how many copies he has of himself. Each copy raises its hammer one at a time in rapid succession, and the player must press  right as the last clone's hammer is raised for an "Excellent".
A special kind of Hammer known as the Trio Attack Hammer is given to Paper Mario once all Paper Toads have been saved in Sunbeam Plains. In battle, Paper Mario, Mario and Luigi use this hammer to paperize all enemies on-screen before performing one of the five Trio Attacks selected.
During their trek through Doop Doop Dunes, Nabbit swipes all three of their hammers. The trio have to chase him down to retrieve them before they can proceed.
During the Papercraft Kamek battle, Papercraft Luigi can use his hammer to attack spiky papercraft enemies using his jump attack, as dashing into those kind of enemies will damage the papercraft.

Hammers reappear as Mario and Luigi's weapons in Mario & Luigi: Brothership. Whenever a Bro. attacks with his hammer, the Bro. whose turn did not come yet can help out, charging up his own hammer and smacking the hammer of the attacking brother to help him deal more damage to the targeted enemy.

Hammers appear in Mario vs. Donkey Kong, functioning as a temporary power-up like in the Game Boy version of Donkey Kong. They are found above the ground, and Mario is able to grab them by jumping. After acquiring a Hammer, he starts banging it on the ground repeatedly, destroying any enemy encountered on the path. However, as in previous games, Mario is unable to jump while carrying the Hammer. He will throw the Hammers up in the air whenever he begins climbing a Ladder or falls from a great height, with the Hammer rising and falling down slowly in mid-air to allow the character to pick it up again. This period of time when the Hammer is not in use is actually included in the time it takes until it despawns. When in use, the Hammer's characteristic tune from the original Donkey Kong game also plays.
In the rest of the series, Hammers only come in pairs and are wielded by Minis in a similar fashion, swinging them on the ground as they march. They can be used to destroy enemies and fragile rocks. Just as in Mario vs. Donkey Kong, the Hammers eventually wear off after a while of being used and respawn where they were originally found. Also like in the previous game, Minis will throw the Hammers upward when they start climbing a Ladder or a Blue Lift, so that they can catch and continue using them shortly after. However, the time the Hammers spend in mid-air no longer adds to their lasting time, and when picked up again, their time limit resets.
In Mario vs. Donkey Kong: Minis March Again!, the Minis start glowing red when the Hammers are about to wear off. While carrying Hammers, Minis do not become dizzy after they fall from a height between seven and eleven blocks as they normally do; however, they will break if they fall from a height of eleven blocks or more, regardless if they are wielding Hammers or not.

Hammers in the Mario Tennis series appear only in Mario Power Tennis and Mario Tennis: Power Tour, where Mario and Luigi use one in their respective Offensive Power Shots, the Iron Hammer and the Squeaky Mallet.

The Hammer appears in Mario Kart Arcade GP as one of Mario and Luigi's special items. Upon being used, Mario or Luigi will swing the Hammer for about 5 seconds, dealing damage to any racers that draw near. The Hammer features a unique design in these games, sporting the color and logo of the Mario brother that is wielding it. Other characters also have their own unique hammers as special items, such as Toad using the Mushroom Hammer, Donkey Kong using the 10T Hammer, Pac-Man and Ms. Pac-Man using the Quack Hammer sporting the color and logo of whoever is wielding it, and Blinky using the Monster's Hammer.

The Hammer along with the other variants return in Mario Kart Arcade GP 2 as special items to their respective wielders from the previous installment.

The Hammer also appears in Mario Kart Arcade GP DX, though it is a common throw-forward item with the Mario design only returning. The 10T Hammer also returns as a common throw-forward item.

The Hammer reappears again as a usable item in Mario Kart Arcade GP VR. It can be swung in front of the racer by making a downwards motion with an arm, and disappears after being held for a period of time. Other racers will spin out if they touch another racer's Hammer. The Mario design of the Hammer from the previous Mario Kart Arcade GP games originally appeared in the trailer for this game, but is replaced with the "squeaky hammer" design in the final game.

In Mario Kart Tour, the Hammer appears as a special skill for Hammer Bro, Builder Mario, Captain Toad, Builder Luigi, Builder Toadette, Daisy (Farmer), Yellow Shy Guy (Explorer), and the Hammer Bro and Rocky Wrench Mii Racing Suits. Introduced in the vs. Mega Hammer Bro bonus challenge during the Baby Rosalina Tour, the user can throw a spread of five hammers forward or three hammers backward, which can make opponents crash when a hit is made. If thrown forward, hammers can home into opponents like a Red Shell, although this only happens if the opponent is close enough to the driver who throws the hammers. The hammers only bounce twice and vanish after hitting the ground the third time. During a Hammer Frenzy, hammers can be thrown two at a time in either direction for several seconds. When Hammer+ is active, two extra hammers will be tossed, no matter which direction the player throws it, meaning the player can throw seven hammers forward, and five backward.
When Hammer Bro was introduced as an unlockable character in the Hammer Bro Tour, a bug prevented the Hammers from appearing in normal item rolls, limiting Hammers to the rare Hammer Frenzy. This was fixed when the 2020 Yoshi Tour started. Hammer Bro also wields his hammer while doing certain Jump Boost animations.

Hammers appear in Super Princess Peach as projectiles thrown by enemies. The Army Hammer Bro throws slightly larger hammers than those of his brethren in his battle, and Bowser uses hammers in both phases of his fight; in the first phase, he throws hammers and tosses giant ones with the Gloom vibe, and in the second phase, he can summon a dispersing ring of hammers around his head to hit Peach.

The Hammer in DK: Jungle Climber looks somewhat like a Barrel. It is one of Diddy Kong's items that can be used to assist Donkey Kong. The Hammer can be used to smash barrels, rocks, and other solid elements that Donkey Kong cannot break in his own. This item can only be used for a limited time before Diddy Kong drops it.

Yoshi's New Island features hammers as obstacles in some levels. In Fort Bucket Booby Trap, hammers are suspended and make a flipping motion, either downward or upward. If the Yoshi gets struck by the base of the hammer, the Yoshi gets launched and hits the screen, losing a life. The sides of the hammer, however, simply causes Yoshi to drop Baby Mario.

In Mario + Rabbids Kingdom Battle, Melee weapons are designed after hammers. Only Mario and his Rabbid counterpart can use them. As what their name suggests, Melees are close-range weapons that deal more damage than Mario's primary long-range single-target blaster weapons and complement Rabbid Mario's powerful short-range shotgun-type Boomshots. In addition to dealing heavier damage, these weapons deal splash damage to objects close to the target. The closer the target is, the more damage the Melees deal. Bowser Jr. also operates a mech, Mecha Jr., that wields a cow-themed hammer.

In Dr. Mario World, hammers are special items that can be used in-stage. When activated, the player can choose a tile to which the targeted object is eliminated. After targeting the object, there is a delay before the hammer strikes. Free uses of the hammers can be awarded through battle boxes in versus mode or occasionally rewards through events. If there are no more hammers to use for free, the player will need 8 Diamonds to use another.

A Hammer used on the world map in Super Mario Bros. 3 briefly appears in The Super Mario Bros. Movie, where it is seen in a lit display box outside of the antiques shop.

In the Nintendo versions of Skylanders: SuperChargers and Skylanders: Imaginators, Hammer Slam Bowser and his dark variant wields a Hammer as their primary weapon of choice. It is a silver dual-wielding hammer with a long green handle and a large metal head sporting two red Spiny Shells on each end of the head. After purchasing the first upgrade on the Molten Monstrosity upgrade path, Molten Hammer, the entire hammer turns a dark blue-silver with the Spiny Shell-like ends possessing molten orange spaces, similar to Dry Bowser's shell from Mario Kart 8 onwards. Unlike the previous hammers Bowser has used throughout several Super Mario titles, this hammer is unique to the Skylanders series of games.
Throughout the Skylanders series itself, there are other characters that utilize hammers for their attacks as well: the life Skylander Stump Smash with his mallet hands, the earth Giant Crusher with his giant hammer, the earth SWAP Force Skylander Rubble Rouser with his hammer that can turn into a drill, and the earth Trap Team Skylander Wallop with his dual wielding Traptanium mallets.