HP (which stands for "Heart Points," "Health Points," or "Hit Points," depending on the game using it) is a game mechanic that denotes the health of a character or object in numerous role-playing games, including those related to the Super Mario franchise, as well as the Luigi's Mansion series. HP can be restored using healing items such as Mushrooms, as well as Recovery Blocks (from the Paper Mario series, the Japanese version of Mario & Luigi: Superstar Saga and all versions of its 3DS remake, Mario & Luigi: Partners in Time, and Mario & Luigi: Paper Jam). Mario can also restore his HP from small hearts that can be found on the field or by defeating enemies.
When a given character's HP reaches zero, they are downed. If the last party member (or just Mario, in the first two Paper Mario games) is downed, the player will receive a Game Over unless they have a Life Shroom (or any other type of life-restorative) in stock. To decrease the chance of this happening, Mario and the other playable characters can increase their maximum HP when leveling up in most games.

NOTE: A tooltip designates what "HP" stands for in a given game.

Certain Super Mario RPG: Legend of the Seven Stars enemies (such as Dry Bones) are stated by Mallow's Thought Peek ability to have zero HP, although this really means that they are immune to all attacks but Magic ones, which destroy them in one hit.

In the Super Smash Bros. series, Master Hand and Crazy Hand appear with HP instead of percent digits. Additionally, Super Smash Bros. Melee and subsequent games allow the players to choose to substitute HP instead of percent digits in Stamina Mode. If a character's HP reaches zero, they will enter a fainting animation. Bosses will be defeated, and players will lose their stock.

In Luigi's Mansion, Luigi has a maximum of 100 HP. Most ghosts have their own HP revealed by their hearts, while Boos instead indicate their health with an electrified purple cloud. For instance, King Boo has 500 HP, and the remaining portrait ghosts each have 100 HP. Boolossus is an exception, as its health is instead measured by how many of the 15 Boos remain on the field during the fight. The 3DS remake introduces Gooigi, who has 50 HP, and amiibo support, allowing for more methods of restoring HP. In the Hidden Mansion in the 3DS remake, all ghosts, including portrait ghosts and Boos, have their health increased by a factor of 1.5 compared to them in the original game.

The frame and quality for Boss gallery ghosts (Chauncey, Bogmire, Boolossus, and King Boo) are determined by how high Luigi's health is after he captures the ghost.

Luigi's Mansion: Dark Moon introduces stronger variants of the regular ghosts, which have increased health. While Luigi scales the Scarescraper, allies can revive him after he loses all his health, bringing him back with 20 HP. These additions return in Luigi's Mansion 3, where Gooigi now has a maximum of 25 HP that regenerate over time, and Luigi's maximum health has been reduced to 99 HP. Miniature variants of the Goobs and Hammers are introduced, both of which have zero health and thus can be vacuumed without resistance once stunned with a flash.
Luigi's Mansion Arcade opts to represent Luigi's health with only two hearts, which together act as a gauge. Each attack deals half of a heart of damage, essentially giving Luigi four HP. The ghosts in this game also have reduced health compared to them in Luigi's Mansion: Dark Moon, which the arcade game is based on. Upon losing all health, the player can insert more credits to get a Continue Boost, which restores Luigi to full health.

In Mario & Luigi: Superstar Saga and Mario & Luigi: Superstar Saga + Bowser's Minions, the Woohoo Blend, which is made at Starbeans Cafe, can increase the max number of HP a character has by four/two points. In the Mario & Luigi series following Mario & Luigi: Bowser's Inside Story, the player can use Heart Beans to increase a character's max HP by one point or three points in the case of Heart Bean DXs.

In Puzzle & Dragons: Super Mario Bros. Edition, each teammate's HP on the player's team is totaled for their health bar when they play a course. For this reason, individual teammates cannot be KO'd, but the entire team can if its total HP reaches zero. Clearing Heart Orbs or using HP-recovering Skills replenishes the player's team's health bar. Several teammates have the Awoken Skill Health Boost to raise the player's team's maximum HP upon entering a course, as do several Leader and Helper Skills. The player can also raise a teammate's maximum HP by de-powering teammates that provide HP plus bonuses, each plus bonus increasing HP by ten.

In Mario + Rabbids Kingdom Battle, Power Orbs/Power Runes can be exchanged within the Skill Trees for various health upgrades. In Mario + Rabbids Sparks of Hope, Skill Prisms replace this function in the Skill Trees.

Peach and Rabbid Peach have various Health Point restoring Techniques that can be upgraded through the Skill Trees.
Additionally, in Mario + Rabbids Kingdom Battle, everyone's maximum HP increases after each world is cleared.

Heart Points are not used to restore health in Super Mario Bros. Wonder; instead, they measure how much the player has helped other players online. The player can earn Heart Points in different ways, including giving power-ups to other players, reviving their ghosts, and reaching the Goal Pole at the same time as all other players in the course.

Peach's health meter in Princess Peach: Showtime! is shown as hearts, and she starts each level with five HP, shown as hearts above her head and in the pause menu. She loses one HP if she comes into non-attacking contact with an enemy, gets hit by projectiles, falls down, gets caught up during some auto-scrolling sections, or touches lasers or certain kinds of fire; Patissiere Peach loses a baking competition; or Detective Peach makes a Strike of Intuition on an incorrect target. Reducing her HP to zero makes Peach sit down sadly for a short while and sends her back to the most recent checkpoint.
Peach receives HP hearts as a form of gratitude from certain Theets she has saved in levels, and when interacting with certain sceneries.
The "Rehearsal" bonus levels start Peach off with one HP, and she cannot gain more hearts during those levels. The one-HP heart is not shown during the bonus levels.
The game does not have a life system. As a result, there are no Game Overs or being booted out of shows. If Peach runs out of hearts, she is deducted 10 coins and is returned to the start of the section or the nearest previous checkpoint.
The game also offers Peach to put on a Heart Charm, which increases the HP at the start of each level to eight, with the extra hearts shown on the right of Peach. It is offered, and can be removed, by a Staff Member Theet in the upper left of the 1F circle stairs after the player finishes The Castle of Thorns. Stella can also offer it to Peach if she runs out of hearts twice in the same section of a show. The extra hearts are shown as green and cannot be replenished by receiving hearts.