Hearts in the Super Mario franchise are items that can usually be collected to acquire more hit points or chances.

Hearts appear in Yume Kōjō: Doki Doki Panic as items, though were replaced with Mushrooms in Super Mario Bros. 2. There are up to two hearts in every stage, all appearing in certain Subspace locations only, and they add an additional mark or heart to the life meter, up to four. The meter then resets to two marks at the start of the following stage.
A small version also appears in this game, which is retained in Super Mario Bros. 2 and Super Mario Advance.

Hearts appear in Super Mario Odyssey as items. They are red with black eyes, and each heart restores a wedge of Mario's health. Hearts give 5 coins when collected while being at full health. Another item known as the Life-Up Heart, which works like the Life Mushroom does in the Super Mario Galaxy games, also appears.

Hearts are items in Paper Mario. Each Heart restores one HP to Mario, and they may appear in the overworld after an enemy is defeated in battle. Hearts in Paper Mario: The Thousand-Year Door have the same purpose, but they now heal a partner, in addition to Mario.
Hearts in Paper Mario: Sticker Star are made of cardboard and replenish 5 HP of Mario's health, and are found in other places such as behind bushes. In Paper Mario: Color Splash, each regular heart restores 40 HP. One heart is also found at the Prisma Fountain for every Big Paint Star retrieved; when they are all returned, the fountain they fill heals Mario instead. Hearts (now called Healing Hearts) reappear in Paper Mario: The Origami King, where their size and appearance dictate the amount of HP they refill. The small red ones heal 30 HP, while the medium ones heal 50 HP, and the large ones with white accents heal 100 HP.

Hearts in the GBA version of Mario Bros. are one of three items that can appear from an Egg in a garbage can, which is exclusive to 2-Player Battle mode; if found, they work as they do in Super Mario Bros. 2, turning Small Mario into Super Mario.

Hearts appear in the Luigi's Mansion series as items in every installmment. In Luigi's Mansion, they appear in three variations: Small Hearts, which restore 10 HP, Medium Hearts, which restore 20 HP, and Large Hearts, which restore 50 HP after fulfilling certain conditions. Hearts are less common in the PAL version of the Hidden Mansion. In Luigi's Mansion: Dark Moon, hearts  restore 25 HP at a time only, but vacuuming it up with the Poltergust 5000 restores 50 HP instead. In Luigi's Mansion 3, they restore 20 HP.

The Hearts appear in Mario Kart: Double Dash!! as the special items of Peach and Daisy, but Petey Piranha and King Boo can also use the item due to them being able to use any special item in the game. When used, two small pink hearts appear and circle around the kart. These hearts protect the kart from up to two obstacles or weapons on the course. The racer can then use the new item as they please. However, Spiny Shells, Chain Chomps, and Bob-omb explosions penetrate the hearts. Lightning attacks and falling off the course destroy both circling hearts. Also, any fireballs received do not multiply by five when thrown. If a green fireball hits a heart, the icon for the green fireball received is a red fireball.
When an item hits the player's heart barrier, a sound similar to that of the Spinning Heart from Super Mario 64 and Super Mario 64 DS can be heard. If a character activates a Heart after being shrunken by Lightning, the hearts circling the kart remain small even after the kart reverts to normal size.
Discounting color swaps, the Heart is the only special item not used in its respective team's group art, as the Peach and Daisy artworkMedia:PeachDaisyDoubleDash.png instead shows a Mushroom.

The Heart appears in Mario Kart Tour as the special skill of Peach, Daisy, Wendy, Pink Yoshi, Pink Toad (Pit Crew), Pink Shy Guy, Baby Peach (Cherub), Daisy (Fairy), Baby Mario (Koala), and the Peach, Pink and Wendy Mii Racing Suits. They look similar to the hearts from Super Mario Odyssey, except they are colored pink like the Heart in Mario Kart: Double Dash!!. They merely block opponents' items in this game, including Lightning, rather than enabling drivers to snatch and use these items. In addition, up to five hearts can be used at once. Activating a Heart grants players points. Unlike in Mario Kart: Double Dash!!, the Heart has a set time limit for use of 20 seconds, and when the timer exceeds, the Heart disappears. When Heart+ is active, a second Heart appears alongside, much like in Mario Kart: Double Dash!!, except the extra Heart disappears more quickly.
Hearts, along with other items, are also depicted on various flags hanging on strings in GCN Daisy Cruiser.

In the Mario Kart 8 Deluxe – Booster Course Pass DLC, hearts with their Mario Kart Tour appearance can once again be seen on the bunting of GCN Daisy Cruiser.

Small hearts appear in Yoshi Topsy-Turvy as items, and they restore one point of Yoshi's Smile Meter when swallowed. There is a rare variation of these hearts called big heart, which restores all of the health back.
Small hearts with eyes and feet appear in Yoshi's Woolly World, its Nintendo 3DS version, and Yoshi's Crafted World, in a role similar to Stars in the Yoshi's Island games. They help restore lost energy and can be collected by touching or eating them. They often come out of Winged Clouds in groups of three or five. In addition, any enemy that is caught on-screen when Yoshi reaches a checkpoint turns into a heart. Once they land on the ground, hearts begin hopping in a certain direction, falling off ledges and turning the other way if they meet a wall. They start flickering and eventually disappear if Yoshi does not collect them in time. Unlike Stars, hearts do not appear as coins when Yoshi's energy bar is full.

While hearts appear in the Wario Land series, they do not serve their traditional purpose in the first three games. In Wario Land 4, Wario's health is represented by hearts. He can have a maximum of eight hearts at any moment, and there are three different types of hearts that can be collected: "regular" hearts, which replenish one unit of health and can be found in set positions within levels, "big" hearts, which fully heal Wario and can only be obtained from Full Health Item pickups, and little hearts, which appear as red dots that most enemies drop when defeated. Collecting eight little hearts replenishes one unit of Wario's Heart Meter. Hearts are also used to represent Wario's health in Wario Land: Shake It!, with garlic being the item used to replenish them.

Hearts in Wario: Master of Disguise not only represent Wario's health but are also items that restore it. Hearts are occasionally dropped by enemies when they are defeated. They can also be created by Arty Wario after he receives the Arty Mastery Gem upgrade, if the player draws the shape of a heart on the screen. Hearts dropped by enemies start blinking and eventually disappear if they are left uncollected, while hearts made by Arty Wario remain indefinitely (until Wario leaves the current room).

Hearts appear in Super Princess Peach as items. They can be found by breaking blocks or occasionally by defeating enemies; they restore one HP. There is a rare larger version that restores two HP instead of one.

Hearts in New Play Control! Donkey Kong Jungle Beat are measurements of Donkey Kong's health, which is represented by three hearts; this is a change from the original game, where Donkey Kong loses bananas when damaged. Hearts appear in certain locations and also appear after 200 or any multiple of 500 bananas are collected, provided he is missing one; otherwise, he obtains a 1-Up Coin.

Hearts in Donkey Kong Country Returns, its Nintendo 3DS port, Donkey Kong Country: Tropical Freeze, and its Nintendo Switch port represent the Kong's health points, with each Kong having two of them. In single-player, if a Kong is currently assisting Donkey Kong, the Kong assistant is the first to lose their heart points upon touching harmful objects, followed by Donkey Kong; in multi-player, Donkey Kong and the assistant lose hearts alternately. When the partner Kong loses both hearts, they fall off-screen, and Donkey Kong loses that Kong's assistance. Heart points can be restored by collecting heart items, encountered commonly in levels, usually floating in mid-air. Some hearts can be obtained from certain item containers and Item Handles, or released by bosses when hit, provided the Kongs are missing heart points in their health meter; if the Kongs already have a filled health meter, they might obtain a banana in either situation instead. An alternative way to regain health is by breaking a DK Barrel. Heart items are completely absent from levels during Mirror Mode in Returns and Hard Mode in Tropical Freeze, and the Kongs have only a single health point each.
During Funky Mode in the Nintendo Switch version of Donkey Kong Country: Tropical Freeze, all Kongs receive an extra heart (bringing the total to three), whereas Funky Kong has five hearts.

Hearts appear as items in the Blazing Bobsleigh and Snow Machine Fight events in the Nintendo DS version of Mario & Sonic at the Olympic Winter Games. Hearts in Blazing Bobsleigh refill the player's HP meter partially when collected, and hearts in Snow Machine Fight restore half of the player character's total health when collected.

Hearts appear in Mario Party 10 exclusively to the Bowser Party and Bowser Challenge modes. In this game, the characters start off with six hearts, which are lost when taking damage in a Bowser Minigame. The characters can gain extra hearts from various events and locations around the board, however they can also lose hearts from Bowser spin wheels and other events. If a character loses all of their hearts (only possible during a Bowser minigame), they leaves the vehicle and are no longer able to roll Dice Blocks. While players are eliminated, they can get Special Dice Blocks for the remaining teammates in the vehicle. In Bowser challenge mode, the player plays through all of the Bowser Minigames as Bowser, and aim to obtain as many hearts as possible from the other characters. The final score is given as the number of hearts that the player managed to collect in total at the end of all ten minigames.

Hearts appear in Super Mario Party Jamboree as items in Bowser Kaboom Squad.

Hearts in Dr. Mario World are used as a stamina counter. As long as the player has at least one heart, they can play a level, and players earn a heart if they clear a stage (prior to version 2.3.0, they are rewarded from stage clears only for the first time). Hearts are gained automatically as time passes until it reaches the maximum of 10 hearts (5 prior to version 2.3.0), but can also be purchased with Diamonds. Players can gain 5 additional hearts for 10 diamonds, while players can gain 60 minutes of infinite hearts for 30 diamonds. Players can receive up to 20 hearts from friends per day (10 prior to version 2.1.0), and players can earn hearts in battle boxes. Since version 2.4.0, if the user made in-game purchases prior to the update (this update removed all in-game purchases), they have unlimited hearts.

Hearts in Mario Golf: Super Rush replenish half of a player charcacter's stamina in the Speed Golf and Battle Golf modes only.

Hearts appear in Princess Peach: Showtime! as items that restore one of Peach's hearts when collected. If Peach has full HP, hearts instead give 10 coins.