Hoohoo Mountain is a large mountain in the Beanbean Kingdom that the Mario Bros. visit in Mario & Luigi: Superstar Saga. The mountain is primarily inhabited by the Hoohooligans on bridges near a giant waterfall. Their ancient civilization can be seen throughout the mountain, including their jokes inscribed on the rock walls (in Hooroglyphs), their weapon Hoohooros, and the watering holes (used by Mario to become Pump Mario). At the summit lives Blablanadon, a talking pterosaur.

Bordering or connecting locations to Hoohoo Mountain and Hoohoo Mountain Base include:

The Mario Bros. come here after learning they need a Hoohoo Block to have the Hammerhead Bros. make the Bros. their Hammers, which can only be found on the summit. Around the halfway point of the mountain, the Bros. are confronted by Hoohooros, who challenges the Mario Bros. to a mini game. After the game, Hoohooros challenges them to a battle. After the Bros. win, Hoohooros, impressed with the Bros.' skill, allows them to pass. At the top of the mountain, they find the Hoohoo Block, though it falls off the mountain into the Hammerhead Bros.' house. They also find at the top the missing Blablanadon, who is sitting on an egg and explains that he saw Prince Peasley go up this mountain, leading Blablanadon to follow him. Blablanadon then found the egg and has been keeping it warm until it hatches. The egg then hatches and produces Dragohoho, sending Blablanadon flying and attacking the Bros. After defeating Dragohoho, it transforms into Prince Peasley, who explains that he was on a top secret mission when he discovered Cackletta and her subordinate Fawful climbing up the mountain. Peasley was then turned into Dragohoho by Cackletta. Blablanadon then flies the Bros. to Hoohoo Village.

After the Koopa Cruiser crashes, Captain Goomba crash lands into a cave on Hoohoo Mountain. Captain Goomba then leaves the cave and realizes he is on a mountain. He spots Bowser flying off after the explosion, and goes to follow him. After an encounter with some Beanies, he finds a group of fellow Goombas, which nominate him captain of their group. He then encounters some Hammer Bros. with the Hammerhead Bros., who are discussing their shared love of hammers. Captain Goomba accepts an offer to face them in battle in order to recruit them. The group then encounters Paragoombas claiming Bowser's minions are "their mortal enemies." After they too are defeated, they revert to normal and detail how Fawful hypnotized them with a spray, and seems to have captured Bowser. Captain Goomba next encounters Lemmy and Ludwig, who dismiss his story and ignore his warnings. He then encounters Fawful directly, when Private Goomp arrives and challenges him, telling Captain Goomba to stay back. Fawful sprays the both of them, and while Captain Goomba is unaffected, Private Goomp is brainwashed and fights Captain Goomba's group. After Private Goomp's defeat, Fawful blasts them both off and departs with Bowser. After a brief talk with a Hoohooligan, Captain Goomba jumps off a bridge towards the base of the mountain, when he bounces off an offscreen object. After this, a Lakitu informs them that Bowser has been sighted. They find Bowser and give chase but have to fight massive hordes of enemies. Once all of the enemies are defeated, they search Hoohoo Village for Bowser. A Hoohooligan reveals that Bowser got hit by a "strange rock" (which was actually Captain Goomba) and then followed a "food thief".

For a list of beanholes found in Hoohoo Mountain, see here. Mario and Luigi can also earn Hee Beans by playing Mysterious Mine Carts.