Horned Ant Troopers are indigo ant enemies with striped bodies, yellow eyes and an orange spiked helmet that first appear in Super Mario 3D World. They behave and look the same as normal Ant Troopers except they wear a spiked orange helmet which prevents them from being jumped on from above.

In Super Mario 3D World and its Nintendo Switch port Super Mario 3D World + Bowser's Fury, Horned Ant Troopers attack by marching (sometimes out of holes or gray pipes) and will keep walking on to walls. Despite the spiked helmet, they can be jumped on if they are walking along a vertical surface. They are vulnerable to Ground Pounds (on their sides), projectiles, and Cat Mario, Tanooki Mario and Rosalina's attacks. They first appear in World 4-1, Ant Trooper Hill.

Horned Ant Troopers appear in Super Mario Maker 2, where they are placeable enemies exclusively in the Super Mario 3D World style. They can be made larger by giving them a Super Mushroom in the editor, causing them to act like Big Ant Troopers. They can also be given wings and parachutes.

Horned Ant Troopers make their first appearance in the Mario & Luigi series in Mario & Luigi: Paper Jam. They are enemies that are encountered during the second visit to the Twinsy Tropics Dungeon and during the Final Smash mission in Neo Bowser Castle alongside normal Ant Troopers. Mario, Luigi, and Paper Mario can attack them with their hammers to knock their helmets off, making them normal Ant Troopers. Both Ant Troopers and Horned Ant Troopers are fought in large groups. A Horned Ant Trooper's main attack is to jump up and dive head-first into one of the Bros., which can be counterattacked with the hammer. If the number of Ant Troopers and Horned Ant Troopers in battle combined is a multiple of three, they attack the Bros. by dashing towards them in groups of three. The Ant Troopers without helmets can be safely jumped on, but the Bros. will be damaged if they jump on a Horned Ant Trooper. Sometimes, if their numbers dwindle, Ant Troopers can choose to skip a turn on purpose or flee.

Horned Ant Troopers appear in Mario & Luigi: Bowser's Inside Story + Bowser Jr.'s Journey as enemies and recruitable allies. They are Melee troops, and their Special Skill is Hit 'Em Up.

Horned Ant Troopers reappear in Super Mario Party Jamboree in a Free-For-All minigame alongside regular Ant Troopers. They eliminate any players that jump on their spiked helmets.