Hot Rocket is the fifty-seventh level in the Wii game, Donkey Kong Country Returns and its 3DS remake Donkey Kong Country Returns 3D. It is also the second level in the Volcano world. As with most other Rocket Barrel segments, "Mine Menace" acts as the background music, albeit slightly remixed.
This level features the Rocket Barrel, which is found throughout most of the level. On the barrel, the Kongs must constantly dodge the obstacles before them. Much of it is movable rock plates that either break apart or rise with the lava. Another are leaping flames, fiery snake-like creatures that fly around in circle-like paths. Near the end is a massive wave of lava that chases Donkey and Diddy Kong. They must avoid all of these obstacles and make it to the end without hitting anything. 
In the Time Attack mode of the game, a time of 1:31:00 is needed to get a gold medal, a time of 1:32:00 for silver, and a time of 1:34:00 for bronze.

The level starts off with the Donkey and Diddy Kong on the ground. There is a platform that tilts when stood on with lava surrounding it and Char-Chars, which act similar to Lava Bubbles, in the gap next to it. There is also a barrel that takes them to a Bonus Level above the lava between the platforms and the ground. After finishing the Bonus Level, the Kongs get shot out to the ground. There are then more platforms next to them, and after the platform is a Rocket Barrel. After starting up the barrel, they fly towards a grid of bananas that are floating. After that, they start traveling to where giant steel rocks and lava are moving. The rocks move close to each other, creating only as small passage for the Kongs to ride through. The letter K of the K-O-N-G Letters is slightly under one of these rocks. Then, smaller rocks fall down into the lava, getting in the Kongs' way. Fireballs start moving from the behind them, and grid of bananas are located in the area. After they go through the bananas, giant steel rocks start to fall down completely into the lava. The Kongs must pass through the area as the rocks ahead of them sink and then come up to the Tutorial Pig with the checkpoint following a curved path of Banana Bunches and the letter O.
Leaping flames moving in a circular direction are ahead. If the Kongs are touched by one of these enemies, Diddy or Donkey Kong lose a heart. The Kongs then fly around more steel rocks, coming up to the letter N and a curvy trail of bananas on the way. There are more leaping flames moving in a circular direction ahead. The letter G is in the middle of this area. If the Kongs manage to avoid the enemies, they come to an area where lava starts rumbling from behind them. A wave of lava begins to follow the Kongs here as they travel between a thin passage between volcanic rocks. After escaping, the Rocket Barrel runs out of fuel and drops the heroes on a solid platform with the Slot Machine Barrel; hitting the barrel makes the level complete.