Huckit Crabs are hermit crab or fiddler crab-like enemies that first appear in New Super Mario Bros. Wii. They wear a red shell and have two yellow feet and only one claw that it uses to throw either sand balls or rocks. Their name is a pun on "hermit crab", the crab species they resemble, and the term "huck it", referring to their method of attack. They try to hit Mario and his company with their projectiles, which travel in a straight line when thrown. Their rock-throwing technique is very similar to Clawgrip's, another crab, from Super Mario Bros. 2.

Huckit Crabs are enemies in New Super Mario Bros. Wii. Many of them are encountered in World 4-3, the only level to have Huckit Crabs. Huckit Crabs are stationary enemies that throw sandballs to the left. Also, by throwing, the force of the throw pushes them back slightly to the right. Huckit Crabs can be defeated the same ways as a common enemy: jumping on its head, freezing them with a Ice Flower or a Penguin Suit, attacking it with a Fire Flower, or by running into it with a Star. The sand balls can also be destroyed, but only by jumping on them, as ice balls and fireballs are ineffective.

Huckit Crabs are enemies in New Super Mario Bros. U, New Super Luigi U, and their Nintendo Switch version. In the former game, Huckit Crabs appear only in Waterspout Beach, while in New Super Luigi U includes Huckit Crabs in both Huckit Beach Resort and Porcupuffer Cavern. Huckit Crabs can throw rocks, which also be raised in elevation by a Water Geyser. Unlike in New Super Mario Bros. Wii, throwing their projectile does not push them back.

Huckit Crabs are both non-playable and background characters in Mario Party 9. Huckit Crabs appear in Blooper Beach, where landing on an Event Space results in the crabs on a pirate ship firing their cannons, turning any Mini Stars into Mini Ztars and vice versa.

A Huckit Crab makes a background appearance as one of the tiles in Match Faker in Mario Party: Island Tour.

Huckit Crabs are non-playable characters in Mario Party 10. They appear as spectators in Whimsical Waters as well as in Meanie Match.

Huckit Crabs are non playable characters in Mario Party: Star Rush. They appear in the background of the Mega Blooper's Bayside Bop boss battle and may appear in the Pop Quiz minigame.

Huckit Crabs are non playable characters in Super Mario Party. They appear in the background of the minigame Smash and Crab, and one can also appear in Absent Minded as one of the selectable characters.

A single Huckit Crab appears on the lower beach of Cantaloupe Island on Yoshi's Tropical Island in Mario Party Superstars.

Huckit Crabs appear as background characters on the beach of the Goomba Lagoon board as well as Minigame Bay in Super Mario Party Jamboree. Artwork of the crabs can also be sometimes be seen on balls in the minigame Big-Top Quiz.

Huckit Crabs are an environmental species in Mario & Luigi: Superstar Saga + Bowser's Minions. They replace the Sidesteppers that run past in the background of Hermie III's battle.

Huckit Crabs are assistants in Dr. Mario World. In stage mode, their effect is to increase the obtained score for each yellow virus eliminated, where the base score increase is greater at higher levels. In versus mode, they grant a chance that a rainbow capsule will appear within the first 20 seconds of a match. Huckit Crabs also appear in the overworlds for World 3 and World 16 when they are cleared.