Ice Bros. are a species of Hammer Bro that debuted in New Super Mario Bros. Wii. Ice Bros. resemble ordinary Hammer Bros., but with light cyan shoes, shells and helmets. Instead of throwing hammers, they will throw ice balls at their enemies (similar to how Fire Bros. throw fireballs, except that their ice balls disappear upon hitting the ground after bouncing once).

Ice Bros. make their debut in New Super Mario Bros. Wii. When an Ice Bro's Ice Ball comes in contact with a player, it would first damage them, then freeze them in a block of ice. These Ice Balls can also freeze other enemies, including other Ice Bros., as demonstrated in Enemy Course encounters. If a Yoshi catches one of their Ice Balls, the Yoshi can spit it out in the form of a blue fireball that freezes anything in its path.
Excluding Enemy Courses, a total of six Ice Bros. appear in the game. In World 3-2, one appears atop a small hill shortly after the level's first Star Coin, while another is found on a vertically-moving platform just before the third Star Coin. Four more individuals are scattered across World 3-3. Two Ice Bros. are also found patrolling a circular section of the map of World 3. Running into one can result in a battle with either three or four Ice Bros.

Ice Bros. reappear in New Super Mario Bros. U, where, in contrast to New Super Mario Bros. Wii, they are the rarest type of Hammer Bro in the main game, with one standing on top of a row of six Brick Blocks under a Warp Pipe in the ceiling that leads to the second Star Coin of Icicle Caverns, while another is found later in the same level, positioned on a row of five Brick Blocks between two large icicles. Outside of the main game, two more appear in the final section of World Coin-7.
A total of ten Ice Bros. appear in the expansion for that game, New Super Luigi U. A single Ice Bro is the third enemy encountered in All Aboard! (an airship level featuring all types of Hammer Bro, much like the first Hand Trap in Super Mario Bros. 3) following a Fire Bro and a Mechakoopa. Nine more are distributed across Frozen Fuzzies, a level where the player must rely on ice balls thrown by Ice Bros. and themselves (if they are equipped with the powers of an Ice Flower or a Penguin Suit) to freeze Fuzzies on tracks in order to traverse the level, obtain Star Coins, and even reach a high part of the Goal Pole.

Ice Bros. make their Paper Mario debut in Paper Mario: Sticker Star for the Nintendo 3DS. Their appearance is the same as in New Super Mario Bros. Wii. They appear in enemies in most of World 4. They are quite a common enemy in this game, being slightly more common than Fire Bros. Like in New Super Mario Bros. Wii, they throw Ice Balls and try to hit Mario. Most of them will home in on Mario, and do 3 HP of damage and freeze Mario for a few seconds if they hit. Being frozen will also leave Mario vulnerable to a First Strike from other enemies in the area. Ice Bros. later appear in the first area of Rugged Road after the player has placed an ice-based Thing sticker, which will turn all the Fire Bros. in the area into Ice Bros.
In battle, they are immune to all Ice Flower stickers and Chillhammer stickers. Their main weakness is fire; if the player uses a Fire Flower or a Burnhammer sticker, they take double damage.

Ice Bros. reappear in Paper Mario: Color Splash, behaving the same way as the previous game. They can be found in Lighthouse Island, Fortune Island, and Black Bowser's Castle. A large number of them appear behind the waterfall in the parallel world of Lighthouse Island.
An Ice Bro appears in Redpepper Volcano, where he tries to persuade his coach, a Snifit, to let him fight Mario after all of the Fire Bros. are defeated. When he tries to throw an ice ball at Mario, he misses and hits the ground in front of him.

Ice Bros. return in Paper Mario: The Origami King, with origami Ice Bros. appearing as enemies. When engaged in battle, Ice Bros. either attack using Ice Throw, involving their traditional behavior of throwing ice balls, or Super Bro Throw, which involves lifting another enemy and throwing it at Mario, which defeats the thrown enemy. Much like Boomerang Bros. and Fire Bros., Ice Bros. also have their own unique variant of the move, Cold Bro Throw, which is the same as Super Bro Throw except for the fact that the grabbed enemy is first encased in a snowball before being thrown at Mario.

In Mario Golf: World Tour, one of the names that can appear on the tournament scoreboard is "Ice Bro".

Ice Bros. appear in Puzzle & Dragons: Super Mario Bros. Edition as Water-attribute enemies. In battle, in addition to attacking normally, they may occasionally use Water Change to cause damage and change any Fire Orbs on the player's Orb field into Water Orbs, as well as Frenzied Blows to deal a large amount of damage. When defeated, they may randomly drop Light Blocks of Hammer Bros., while defeating them with 10+ Combo attacks guarantees they will drop Ice Flowers. As Water enemies, they take extra damage from Wood attribute attacks and less from Fire damage. 
As teammates, Ice Bros. have an HP rating of 4/6, an ATK rating of 5/6, and a RCV rating of 2/6. Their Water Change Skill is identical to the enemy skill, and their Awoken Skill Recovery Boost increases the amount of HP healed when clearing Heart Orbs. Ice Bros. use Star Coins and Grand Star Coins to raise their Skill Levels. The player can create an Ice Bro by transforming a Hammer Bro with five Ice Flowers. Teammates may occasionally gain ATK bonuses from depowered Ice Bros.

Ice Bros. reappear in Mario & Luigi: Superstar Saga + Bowser's Minions. They appear as enemies and recruitable Ranged-type allies exclusively in Minion Quest: The Search for Bowser, and are first encountered in Ice Guys Finish Last. They are strong against Fire Bros. but weak against Fly Guys. Strangely, unlike in other games, their tongues appear to be light blue.

Ice Bros. reappear in Mario & Luigi: Bowser's Inside Story + Bowser Jr.'s Journey, where they are found in the Bowser Jr.'s Journey mode. They are strong against Fire Bros. and Broque Madame but are weak against Fly Guys and Parabones.

In Dr. Mario World, Ice Bros. appear in the background of World 10 after it is cleared.

Ice Bro appears as a playable character in the Mario Kart series for the first time in Mario Kart Tour, debuting alongside Hammer Bro, Boomerang Bro, and Fire Bro in the Hammer Bro Tour. He is classified as a Super character and his special item is the Ice Flower. A cup named after Ice Bro, the Ice Bro Cup, debuted in the 2021 Space Tour. Aside from recruitable allies in Mario & Luigi: Superstar Saga + Bowser's Minions and Mario & Luigi: Bowser's Inside Story + Bowser Jr.'s Journey, Mario Kart Tour marks the first playable appearance of an Ice Bro in the Super Mario franchise.

While Ice Bros. do not physically appear in Mario Kart 8 Deluxe, an image of an Ice Bro appears in Wave 5 of the Booster Course Pass DLC in Tour Vancouver Velocity on the
Jumbotron in Rogers Arena.

In LEGO Super Mario Character Pack Series 6, one of the eight figure packs includes an Ice Bro, using the same general model as the other Bros., only using ice-colored pieces.