Ice Blocks (also lowercase as ice blocks) appear in the Super Mario franchise as frozen versions of regular blocks, mostly in the side-scrolling games of the Super Mario series.

Ice Blocks are objects in Yume Kōjō: Doki Doki Panic and its Western release, Super Mario Bros. 2. They first appear in World 4-1. Ice Blocks act as slippery platforms and are semisolid, unlike later appearances.

In Super Mario Bros. 3 and its remake, Ice Blocks appear commonly throughout Ice Land, where they mostly make up the level structure in its airborne levels. Like in Super Mario Bros. 2, they act as slippery platforms; these Ice Blocks can be normal (the size of a brick) or giant-sized (two times bigger, like Big Blocks).
A rarer type of ice block also exists; it is transparent and can be melted by fireballs from Mario and Luigi's Fire form. Some contain coins, while others contain Munchers.
A third type of Ice Block, also referred to as a White Block, also appears throughout Ice Land. Unlike the other types, these resemble white or light blue bricks, are not slippery, and can be picked up and thrown.

In Super Mario World, a few Ice Blocks make a small appearance in the level Awesome of the Special Zone. None of them can be picked up, as they merely serve as slippery platforms like most of the terrain in the level. They appear as light blue Rotating Blocks.

In Super Mario 64, grounded ice blocks are routinely shot out of the ice block shooter in Snowman's Land. The ice block shooter is placed on the normal route to Snowman Mountain, and its ice blocks are triangular waves that stop and disappear into the ground before reaching the freezing pond. After every four small ice blocks are shot, a large one is shot. The ice blocks attempt to push Mario into the freezing pond and require timing to jump over as they are indestructible.
In Super Mario 64 DS, additional forms are introduced. Blocks of Ice appear in the ice-themed courses Cool, Cool Mountain and Snowman's Land. They can be melted only with Yoshi's fire breath, and they often contain items such as Red Coins. In the latter course, they can be melted to collect a Power Star for Yoshi's Ice Sculpture. Additionally, massive Ice Blocks (referred to as ice cubes) appear in Chief Chilly Challenge. They serve as indestructible moving platforms.

In Super Mario Sunshine, ice blocks (also called ice cubes) are transparent blocks giving off an icy mist, and they can be melted with FLUDD. Large ice blocks appear in special stages, and small ones containing items can be found in Noki Bay and the Delfino Airstrip.

In New Super Mario Bros., they are once again slippery platforms. They are found in World 5.

In New Super Mario Bros. Wii, there are six types of Ice Blocks: standard Ice Blocks that act as slippery platforms and cannot be picked up or destroyed, Ice Blocks that consist of enemies frozen by an Ice Flower or other ice projectile, Ice Blocks that can be picked up and thrown at enemies in World 3-4, World 3-5, World 6-1, World 9-5, and World Coin-5 similarly to Grab Blocks (they cannot hurt players, unlike barrels), frozen-over Snake Blocks called Ice Snake Blocks that only appear in World 3-Castle, giant Ice Walls (in the same level mentioned) that can only be destroyed using Bob-ombs, and Ice Blocks that only appear in World 9-7, which, as in Super Mario Bros. 3, can contain coins and Munchers and can be melted with fireballs from a Fire Flower or enemy.

In New Super Mario Bros. 2, Ice Blocks are found in World 4. Once again they cause Mario or Luigi to skid.

Ice Blocks also appear in New Super Mario Bros. U, New Super Luigi U and New Super Mario Bros. U Deluxe, where they reprise their role as regular platforms. Giant Ice Chunks also make an appearance in the level Piranha Plants on Ice. In the level, they are found on top of Frozen Coins, which will melt when hit by fireballs. When its Frozen Coin is melted, the Ice Chunk falls to the ground, which causes it to block some areas or crush Mario or enemies.

Ice Blocks appear in Super Mario Maker and Super Mario Maker for Nintendo 3DS, although they only appear as slippery platforms in all of the level styles and, therefore, cannot be picked up. They also cannot be melted with fire. They are given new sprites for the Super Mario Bros. and Super Mario World styles.

Ice Blocks appear in Super Mario Maker 2, where they behave in the same manner as its predecessor. This time, however, they also appear in the Super Mario 3D World style.

Ice Blocks reappear in Super Mario Bros. Wonder. Just like in the New Super Mario Bros. games, they can be melted from one of Fire Mario's fireballs.

In the Game Boy version of Donkey Kong, Ice Blocks appear in several Iceberg stages. They appear as small blocks of ice that are often used as a puzzle element involving Faiachū, which melt them as they walk over them.

Ice Blocks appear in a few games of the Yoshi's Island series. In Super Mario World 2: Yoshi's Island, they serve as slippery obstacles that cannot be picked up, but can be melted by Yoshi's fire breath after eating a red watermelon, Lava Bubble, or Flamer Guy. Some Ice Blocks hide items. Ice Blocks retain their role in Yoshi's Island DS, although they can now be melted by only Baby Bowser and Scorchits, and the latter can melt some Ice Blocks that Baby Bowser cannot.

Ice blocks are rare objects that can be found in Wario Land II. They appear as small translucent blocks, and are very fragile. Ice blocks can be picked up and used as a throwing weapon to defeat or stun enemies or to break Enemy Blocks. If the ice block falls to the ground or is attacked, it shatters. However, the ice block will respawn if the player walks away from it and then returns.
They are first encountered in a level called Defeat Four Ducks!. It is deployed in various rooms throughout Syrup Castle and can be used to progress through the fortress. The player needs to use the ice blocks to knock down one of the four D.D.s from an unreachable location, and to smash through a staple of Enemy Blocks.
Objects with similar properties, small barrels, can be found in Wario Land 3.

Ice Blocks from the Super Mario World style of Super Mario Maker appear as collectible badges in Nintendo Badge Arcade.

Ice Blocks return in Yoshi's Woolly World and its remake, appearing in the levels Fluffy Snow, Here We Go! and Frozen Solid and Chilled. Like in previous games, they will melt from the effects of fire from a fire watermelon. Flooffs can also melt Ice Blocks.

In the Nintendo Switch remake of Mario vs. Donkey Kong, Ice Blocks appear alongside semisolid variants as part of various terrain in Slippery Summit and its corresponding plus world. A slippery traction is applied to players and Mini-Marios as they walk over ice blocks, and Shy Guys appear to walk on them with slippery traction. Thrown objects can continuously slide across ice blocks before either hitting a wall (which will make them rebound in the other direction with a slower sliding speed) or landing onto non-slippery terrain. Keys will also still run their timer even when sliding across Ice Blocks.
If a player jumps while on an Ice Block, they will perform a spinning animation similar to when jumping off icy terrain in 3D games like Super Mario 3D World. The player can also duck while sliding across Ice Blocks, allowing them to slide underneath small gaps. Slippery traction can be cancelled by performing a Handstand, but the player will still gain slippery traction when performing a Handstand Walk.