Iggy Koopa (known as Hop Koopa in the cartoons) is one of the Koopalings, a clan of seven siblings that act as leaders of the Koopa Troop under Bowser (originally considered his children). Iggy is depicted as a crazed, mechanical genius and childish in personality when together with Lemmy Koopa. His two main outstanding physical characteristics are his glasses and light green hair (originally pink, light blue, and yellow). In later appearances, he is shown to be the thinnest of the Koopalings. Iggy is named after Iggy Pop, a famous American punk rock singer and leader of the proto-punk band The Stooges. 

Iggy first appears in Super Mario Bros. 3, where he and the other Koopalings assist Bowser to take over the Mushroom World. Using his army and weaponry, Iggy controls Giant Land, the king of which he turned into a dinosaur (or a Donkey Kong Jr. look-alike in remakes) using his own stolen magic wand. Afterward, he is expecting to fight Mario, as he assumes that Mario will be nervous. Iggy can be found and battled in the cabin of his airship. In battle, Iggy tries to either jump on to Mario or shoot magical blasts at him using his magic wand. When jumped on, he will retreat into his shell and jump before coming back out. After being jumped on three times by Mario, Iggy is defeated, and he drops the magic wand of Giant Land's ruler.

The Koopalings return in Super Mario World, aiding Bowser in Dinosaur Land. Iggy is found in #1 Iggy's Castle in Yoshi's Island, where he guards a Yoshi trapped within an egg. During battle, Iggy fights Mario by charging at him on an upside-down, shell-like platform floating back and forth in lava. Iggy cannot be hurt; instead, he gets knocked back by Mario's attacks. Iggy also throws fireballs at Mario. Iggy is defeated by Mario by being knocked into the lava surrounding the upside down shell. If the player defeats Iggy and then jumps into the lava and dies before the screen fades out, the main map music goes silent. After Iggy is defeated, the cutscene afterward has Mario detonating the castle with explosives and causing it to collapse.
The quote from the original English version that described Iggy as "demented" is changed into "crazed" in the remake, most likely because some people sometimes classify the word 'demented' as inappropriate.
A brief clip of Mario fighting Iggy in Super Mario World can be seen when FLUDD first scans Mario in Super Mario Sunshine.

Iggy and the other Koopalings return in New Super Mario Bros. Wii as the main bosses of each world. He is also shown to be supremely hyperactive, and can be heard giggling to himself when the player walks down the corridor towards his room in the castle. Due to his hyperactivity, he is also the fastest of the Koopalings. He also has a different appearance from this game onwards than in previous games, with his hair and shell colored green instead of rainbow and blue.
Iggy, along with the other Koopalings and Bowser Jr., appear in the game's intro, where they sneak into Princess Peach's birthday party underneath a cake. They jump out of the cake, interrupting the party, and throw it over Peach, capturing her. They then run off to their Airship and fly away, prompting Mario, Luigi, Yellow Toad and Blue Toad to chase after them.
Iggy is first encountered in the World 5 tower. When he first sees Mario, he is falsely shocked by his appearance, and then, he taunts him by slapping his behind with his wand. Here, he jumps between the main floor and three moving platforms. Iggy also shoots green fireballs from his wand to attack Mario and the speed of these fireballs are the fastest in the game, along with Morton. Like other bosses, he retreats into his shell when stomped, but his shell moves much faster than the others. After he is stomped on three times, Iggy is defeated and retreats to his castle.
In Iggy's castle before his boss battle, Iggy fires magic spells at Mario as he traverses the level. Unlike the tower battle, the castle version of Iggy's boss battle has some major differences. When Mario encounters him in this level, Iggy is in a carriage attached to an average-size Chain Chomp. Suddenly, the door closes behind Mario and Magikoopa flies in, multiplying the Chain Chomp's size. The Chain Chomp travels on a track in the shape of a rectangle. Mario must go behind the Chain Chomp and attack Iggy, who still shoots fireballs from his wand. The boss room has Jump Blocks on the lower platform and Donut Blocks on the upper platform. If Mario strikes Iggy, the Chain Chomp turns red, turns around, and starts moving fast for a short time. After Mario hits Iggy twice, the Chain Chomp becomes faster, giving Mario less time to react. After the third hit, Iggy is defeated, and Mario obtains the key to World 6. Because of the nature of his boss fight against Mario, he is the only Koopaling who doesn't tuck into his shell when stomped on. Instead, he collapses and is knocked out while flailing. He shoots fireballs faster in the tower battle than in the castle battle.
Iggy is later seen along with the other Koopalings trying to get Bowser back up during the ending (with Larry and Bowser Jr.). They do succeed, but Bowser's castle falls on top of all of them.
Iggy is the only Koopaling that must be fought through the fastest way to beat New Super Mario Bros. Wii.

Alongside the rest of the Koopalings, Iggy returns in New Super Mario Bros. 2 as one of the bosses in the game. He is the boss of World 2-Castle. After beating Roy, Mario encountered Iggy with Princess Peach, the former of whom proceeded to once again taunt Mario by slapping his behind at him before making off with her. In this battle, Iggy once again sits in a carriage with a Chain Chomp attached to it and uses his wand to shoot green fireballs, much like in New Super Mario Bros. Wii. Before battling Mario, Iggy taunts him once again before entering his carriage. This time, the boss room is designed differently, so the Chain Chomp has more paths to go. The Chain Chomp travels on a rectangular grid layout and there are four blue platforms that the player can use to avoid it. Also, his pet Chomp is not as big as in New Super Mario Bros. Wii. Once again, after stomping on Iggy, the Chomp will get angry, though it exits the room from the top or bottom and continues. A cloud of dust will appear as Iggy enters the room in the opposite direction from which he exits. After the second stomp, the Chomp will start getting quicker. After three stomps, Iggy is defeated, leaving the key to World 3. Like in his castle boss fight in New Super Mario Bros. Wii, he is the only Koopaling to not tuck into his shell when stomped on.
Iggy retreats to Bowser's Castle, where he, the Koopalings and Bowser attempt to petrify Mario with their Koopa Clown Car's petrification device. He also aids Bowser alongside the rest of the Koopalings by causing him to grow larger, but it resulted in him and the others being knocked into a lava pit by Bowser due to his increased size. He and the other Koopalings then attempt to help Bowser by airlifting him with the Koopa Clown Car, but this results in it crashing due to it being unable to handle the combined weight of both them and Bowser. Iggy is closest to the crash site, sitting stunned near the crashed Koopa Clown Car alongside Lemmy (the latter of whom was lying down on top of the crashed car, close to the propeller). Later, at the castle of World Star, they play the same role as in Bowser's Castle, even enhancing Dry Bowser's size.
The New Super Mario Bros. 2 Prima guide mistakenly calls him Larry.

Iggy, along with the rest of the Koopalings, Bowser Jr., and Boom Boom, returns in New Super Mario Bros. U / New Super Luigi U and its Nintendo Switch port. He serves as the boss of Soda Jungle, similar to his role of being the boss of World 5 in New Super Mario Bros. Wii, as well as Giant Land from Super Mario Bros. 3 as the world is also giant-themed. He is found in Iggy's Volcanic Castle (New Super Mario Bros. U) or Iggy's Swinging-Chains Castle (New Super Luigi U). Instead of riding in a carriage with a Chain Chomp like in the previous two games, the boss battle is different in this game. When Iggy is encountered, just like in New Super Mario Bros. Wii, he fakes shock at Mario's arrival before laughing it off, but this time, Iggy summons lava from beneath the area instead of slapping his rear end. Iggy uses the four warp pipes to run around the room and on the ceiling to make it harder for the player to stomp on him as he uses his Magic Wand to shoot three fireballs, with some being his usual green flame, and the other being red skeleton orbs that generate Magmaarghs when they land into the lava below. When Iggy is stomped on, he will dash around the room in his shell using the pipes on the walls, which will switch him to the other side of the room. Unlike the other Koopalings where they spin in their shells and change directions at the edges or walls of the room, Iggy can actually change directions anywhere around the room during his duration in his shell. After 3 stomps, the lava below will drain out of the room, and Iggy will fall off screen, leaving his airship to be destroyed.
Iggy is later seen in the ending along with the other Koopalings, although they ended up escaping by hanging onto Bowser's tail after the latter inadvertently destroyed Bowser Jr.'s (already damaged) ship.
Iggy has four green pipes on each wall just like Wendy has in New Super Mario Bros 2. The only difference is that Wendy has blue pipes and Iggy has green pipes, and that Wendy uses her pipes to summon enemies, while Iggy uses his pipes to traverse the cabin and keep the Mario Bros. on their toes.
Iggy's airship has his face as the bow and his green-colored shell at the top. The stern is similarly colored to his original shell color. The airship is equipped with two propellers at the back, and there is another at the top just below the crow's nest. There is one cannon on each side, with purple lids on the top. It is metal-plated to carry lava. It is the thinnest and fastest airship, representing Iggy's speed and lankiness. The cabin has metallic walls. It has rectangular shaped windows, and has pipes on the floor and ceiling that Mario/Luigi and co. apparently cannot access, but Iggy can.

Iggy appears alongside the other Koopalings as a placeable enemy in the final update for Super Mario Maker 2, being available in every game style except the Super Mario 3D World style. Iggy receives an original sprite for his appearance in the Super Mario Bros. style, as well as the Super Mario World style to fit with the other game styles. His behavior is to run back and forth, and when given wings he hops back and forth more frequently.

In the Amada Anime Series: Super Mario Bros., Iggy and the Koopalings appear in the series' first story, Momotarō, where they aid Bowser in kidnapping Princess Peach. The Koopalings also appear in the series' third story, once again as minions of Bowser (now the Wicked Queen). Iggy ends up beaten by Mario.

Iggy appeared in the interactive Anime adaptation of Super Mario World. Like in the game, he was fought on Yoshi's Island. He had a horde of Koopa Troopas, Chargin' Chucks, and Rexes attack the Mario Bros., although they took them out. Iggy then sent in Monty Moles and Koopa Paratroopas, but Yoshi defeated them. Iggy then fled.

In The Adventures of Super Mario Bros. 3 and Super Mario World produced by DIC Entertainment and Nintendo, Iggy Koopa is renamed Hop Koopa and he, along with his twin, Hip, are portrayed as among the youngest of the Koopa Kids. Hop resembles his game artwork more than all the other Koopa Kids, even though his two larger fangs are gone, the blue rings in the eyes are directly connected with the pupils, his cuffs lack spikes and the strands of the mohawk point toward different directions. Hop and Hip are constantly seen together, and the duo are constantly pulling pranks on unsuspecting citizens of the Mushroom Kingdom. In spite of their ages, Hop and Hip prove to be capable of doing such things as carjacking and pickpocketing. Like many stereotypical twins, Hop and Hip often share their sentences by either speaking in unison or finishing each other's lines. Additionally, Hop is not portrayed as an inventor - that role goes to Kooky. He is voiced by Tara Strong (formerly known as Tara Charendoff).

In Mind Your Mummy Mommy, Mario, Hip and Hop kidnap Prince Mushroomkhamen from a pyramid in Desert Hill and narrowly escape from Luigi, Princess Toadstool and Toad after Queen Mushroomkhamen mistakes Mario for her son. After taking the tomb to Castle Koopa, Luigi takes it back from them with a steam powered mummy sled. Later, in Misadventure of Mighty Plumber, Hip and Hop inform Bowser that Cheatsy's wand can bring anything inside a television to life. After Cheatsy does this with a race car, Hip and Hop jump inside and ride it. During Do the Koopa, Hop is seen dancing along with the other Koopalings during the song of the same name. He and Hop are setting up a prank in Mush-Rumors by putting a mirror against a wall in hopes that a passerby would think it was a gate, and wonders if anyone is dumb enough to fall for it. Sure enough, a mushroom boy walks into the mirror. When the boy tells the twins of the "aliens" he saw, they run to Dark Land to warn their dad, and tell Bully when they (literally) run into him. While on the Doomsub in The Ugly Mermaid, on the way to Metropolis, Hip and Hop warn King Koopa that the Mario Bros., Princess Toadstool and Toad are going after them in frog suits. Later on, when Koopa threatens to destroy Metropolis, Hip and Hop catch Luigi, Princess Toadstool and Toad chasing them again. Then, in Crimes R Us, the Koopalings capture Crime Wave Clyde who teach Hip and Hop how to pick pockets. After the Koopas trick Clyde, Hop assists the rest of the Koopalings in robbing the Mushroom Kingdom Treasury until they are stopped by Clyde and the Mario Bros. In Life's Ruff, Hip and Hop steal King Windbag's wand, and turn him and Luigi into dogs. The two dogs chase Hip and Hop into the real world where they disrupt a buffet at a hotel. Hip and Hop then steal a sports car after Luigi and Windbag are taken by a dog catcher. They drive over to the Kennedy Space Center where the dogs catch up to them once they escape from the pound. Just before they can board the shuttle, King Windbag tackles Hip and Hop, causing Hip to lose his wand. After King Windbag changes himself and Luigi back into humans, Luigi throws Hip and Hop in the Warp Zone. In 7 Continents for 7 Koopas, The Koopalings are assigned a continent of the Real World. Hop is given South America to conquer. He proceeds to take down the rainforest, replacing it with a vast parking lot. Mario takes Hop's wand and uses it to restore the rain forest. During Recycled Koopa, Hop, along with Hip, Big Mouth, Kootie Pie and Bully, dump all their garbage down a Warp Pipe. Unbeknownst to any of the Koopalings, the pipe led to Mushroom Castle. Mario grabs a hold of Hip's wand, sending all the garbage back to Castle Koopa. This encouraged the Koopalings to order the Sledge Brothers to dump the trash down a Warp Pipe to Brooklyn, which ultimately led to greater problems. In the series' last episode, Super Koopa, he, along with Kooky, Hip and Kootie Pie, Hop traveled to Paris once King Koopa had successfully captured Mario, Luigi and Princess Toadstool. While there, Hip and Hop vandalize the art in the Louvre and put their own crayon drawings to display.

Hip and Hop appear twice in the Super Mario World TV show. In their first appearance, Rock TV, they have a non-speaking cameo as judges on "All Star Prehistoric Tag Team Wrestling". Twice, they are seen ringing the fight bell. 
In their second appearance in A Little Learning, Hip and Hop attend school in Dome City, against their dad's wishes. They throw fireballs at the cave children until Yoshi eats their backpacks. After a skirmish, they get Oogtar in trouble and find him to be an easy target. Hop aids in rerouting lava from Neon Castle for their volcano project. Koopa finds Hop beneath Dome City and accidentally causes him to release huge amounts of lava, destroying the school. He, along with Hip and King Koopa, are swallowed by the Piranha Plant Hip used to sabotage Oogtar's "eggabegga" project which is then eaten by Yoshi. After Yoshi spits the Koopas into a Warp Pipe, Princess Toadstool angrily tells Hip and Hop to not bother coming to school again because they are expelled forever.

Iggy appears in various Nintendo Comics. He is usually seen with the other Koopalings. Much like Hip and Hop in the DIC cartoons, he often hangs out with Lemmy and they like to pull pranks, and often act childish and intelligent.

Iggy cameos in one panel of Fryguy High Yearbook -- Activity Page!, where he is seen roasting weiners over a Fryguy with Lemmy, Morton, and Roy.

Iggy appears in the Nintendo Comics System story Bowser Knows Best, in which he and the other Koopalings attempt to kidnap Princess Toadstool as a Father's Day present for his father Bowser. However, he got easily kidded by Princess Toadstool along with his friends by hearing that yesterday was the day of "buy your children's affections", so they release the princess because their father didn't give them affections. After Bowser told them about the fake, they attempt to get the princess back, but got kidded again by her, Mario and Luigi. Iggy asked Toadstool if she was not going to punish them, and she didn't, because today was "be kind to the turtle kid day".

He also appears in Nintendo Power's Super Mario Adventures, where he and his siblings act as Bowser's henchmen in his plot to kidnap and marry Princess Toadstool. He, along with the others, was watching Ludwig playing videogames, but Bowser interrupts them to tell them about his plan of marrying Princess Toadstool. They soon figured that Toadstool, previously caught, escaped and chased her throughout the castle. She then escapes from the castle and crash lands near Luigi. Meanwhile, Iggy and his friends manages to catch Mario, who was freed when the "princess" gets to the castle. Bowser congratulates Iggy and his friends for kidnapping the princess, but soon the true Toadstool appears dressed as Luigi, full of bombs. The Koopalings got scared first at seeing two princesses, but then Luigi steals the keys for freeing Mario from Roy, and Iggy and co. try to chase them. Wendy trips Yoshi, that holds the key, rushing in Toadstool, and the Koopa releases an horde of Thwomps and Chargin' Chucks. Meanwhile, the freed Mario, Luigi, Toadstool and Yoshi fall by an aperture of the floor in the basement, where Reznors appear. A flame produced by them lights the bomb, resulting in exploding the castle and Mario and his friends get blasted out. It is unknown what happened to Iggy afterwards.

Iggy is the first boss in the first volume of Super Mario-kun, which is based off Super Mario World. As in Super Mario World, he fights Mario on top of a platform above lava. After Iggy gets irritated when Mario places a fake head over Iggy when Iggy retracts his head into his body, he burns Mario with his fireballs. Mario then scratches his hands down a board. Iggy wants the noise to stop, and then he retracts his head into the shell again. Mario then glues his opening shut, locking Iggy in that spot. Iggy then jumps around in panic, thus squirting the glue and solidifying everything, including the characters and the lava. Iggy also makes a brief cameo alongside Bowser Jr. and his siblings in volume 41 of Super Mario-kun and makes a full chapter appearance in volume 42. In the latter volume, Iggy has his Chain Chomp fight Mario and his group, however it turns against him as he neglected and left his Chain Chomp wandering in his castle until it got itself stuck in a grate, and was starving for a month until Mario and his group encounters the creature, upon which it is freed and fed by Yoshi. Iggy's silhouette is seen on the title page of volume 47, although he is set to make his reappearance in volume 48.

Iggy is portrayed as perhaps the brainiest Koopaling in the Nintendo Adventure Books, and is the most prominently featured Koopaling across the entire series, serving as the primary antagonist in three books.
He invents the GLOM, a machine capable of creating loyal duplicates of people and monsters out of sand, in Double Trouble, and uses it to overrun the Mushroom Kingdom with cloned citizens and monsters after capturing their images using spy cameras disguised as flowers. When Mario reaches Fort Koopa in the Koopahari Desert, he can run into Iggy absentmindedly walking down a hall, and covertly follows him, until he accidentally alerts the Koopaling to his presence by knocking over a statue of Genghis Koopa. Running to his laboratory, which is hidden in a hall of mirrors in the basement, Iggy awaits Mario's arrival, and sics the GLOM on him when the plumber discovers him. Depending on the reader's choice of what to do next, Mario is either knocked out (either by his own clone or Iggy's duplicates) and dumped back in the hall of mirrors, or leads the GLOM into the hall, where it clones itself after seeing its own reflection; thrown into a panic by the development, Iggy can only watch in terror as the GLOM keeps cloning itself until it overloads and it and all the duplicates it created explode into sand, bringing Fort Koopa down, leaving Iggy, Bowser and Wendy to dig themselves out of the rubble and limp their way back home. 
After being cornered by Luigi in his Water Land houseboat in Leaping Lizards, Morton summons Iggy and the Doom Ship as backup, but upon spotting Luigi, the bespectacled Koopaling abandons his brother out of fright. Shortly afterward, Iggy is tracked down to his secret laboratory, and reveals that he, as the winner (through cheating) of the International Mushroom Games held six years ago, possesses the magic silver whistle that can restore the Mushroom King, who had been changed into a rabbit by Morton, to normal. Via old legal documents, Iggy reveals that only the rightful owner of the whistle can use it, and if someone else takes it it is punishable by a sentence of hard labor in the Sponge Mines; however, Iggy loses this advantage over the protagonists when Princess Toadstool reveals that the International Mushroom Games are going to be held again in three weeks, and Iggy is legally obligated to put his whistle up as the grand prize. During the International Mushroom Games, Iggy and five of his siblings enter as a team, and Iggy competes in the Waterfall Race (where he makes Princess Toadstool lose by turning her around) and the Super Triple Jump, where he will use either a large spray can or a rocket-powered booster as a leap aid. If the Mushroom Kingdom Royals win the games, Iggy tries to sneak away, but is caught by the heroes, and reluctantly gives up his whistle after getting five coins from Luigi, as per the rules of the tournament.
While Iggy does not appear in person in Monster Mix-Up, the contraption used by the Koopas in the plot, the Monster Mixer,  is touted by Bowser as being "my boy Iggy's newest invention."
In Koopa Capers, Iggy and his brothers have their wands stolen by Wendy, who disappears with them shortly afterward, intent on overthrowing their father with her own army, and a super wand she intends to create by fusing her own wand with her brothers'. If Luigi, who had been coerced by Bowser into searching for Wendy, tracks the female Koopaling down to her hideout, Bowser and the male Koopalings, who had been following him, will barge in after the plumber, but decide to stave off punishing Wendy for her treachery if she helps search for the hiding Luigi. If Luigi had acquired Boom Boom's socks earlier in his adventure, he can toss them into Wendy's simmering wand combination potion, which will release fumes that knock the entire Koopa family and their minions out for at least a week.
In Brain Drain, Iggy creates the Synapse Switcher, a device capable of switching people's minds. From his base in Dinosaur Island, Iggy uses the Synapse Switcher to cause widespread havoc throughout the Mushroom Kingdom by amplifying the machine's rays using the signals broadcast by the nearby WMUSH radio station. In the book's good ending, Iggy, after taking over WMUSH with his minions, attempts to use the Synapse Switcher on Mario and his friends at close range, but the group protect themselves using Fungus Up soda, which they discovered can counteract the effects of the Synapse Switcher. Due to forgetting to put on a protective helmet before activating the Synapse Switcher, Iggy ends up in the body of a Wiggler, while Yoshi's mind (which had previously been switched with another Koopaling) is transferred into his. In this book, it is revealed Iggy has an apparent secret love of music. One of his minions mentions the rumor that Iggy always wanted to be a disc jockey, and later Luigi can find Iggy's homemade music video, which depicts him moonwalking in a garish green wig and gold jumpsuit.

Iggy is in the PC and SNES versions of the game, and speaks entirely in rhyme in the PC version. In this game, Iggy travels to Antarctica with Bowser and the other Koopa Kids, trying to aid them in stealing artifacts, which Bowser intended to sell to raise funds to buy hairdryers from Hafta Havit Mail-Order. With these hairdryers, Bowser plans to melt Antarctica, flooding the Earth. Iggy is encountered by Luigi in Bowser's castle; while looking for Mario and stopping Bowser's plot, Iggy is fought by Luigi, who can easily defeat him by using a fire flower (or, in the SNES version, stomped on his head repeatedly). Before his defeat, he acknowledges that Bowser's angry because of Luigi advancing, and claims that Bowser is "fireproof."

In Yoshi's Safari, Iggy helps Bowser invade the kingdom of Jewelry Land. After stealing the jewels that maintained the stability in Jewelry Land, Bowser entrusts one of these jewels to Iggy, who is given domain over Grand Bridge. Iggy has six cannons on his mechanism, King Gessō, one located in the end of six of his mechanism's ten arms. Iggy needs to be blasted repeatedly with Mario's Super Scope to be injured. Once the Bloober has taken a certain amount of damage, the Bloober's six cannon arms fall off, leaving only the head and bottom arms, and it attacks by jumping out of the water and firing cannonballs from a cannon on its face. After sustaining enough damage, the Bloober loses its remaining arms falls into the water and explodes, and Iggy is left on a piece of debris floating on the ocean, waving a white flag.
According to a storyline presented by the United Kingdom Nintendo Magazine System, Iggy was the one who built the boss machines and kickstarted the events of the game, although that version of the storyline has some differences with the released game, such as claiming that the game takes place in the Mushroom Kingdom and that the Super Scope was constructed by Princess Toadstool's palace smithy. This issue was released between the Japanese and Western releases, and it is unknown if this was an early storyline considered for the game.

In Hotel Mario, Iggy, unlike the other Koopalings, does not gain a hotel when the Mushroom Kingdom is taken over by Bowser. Instead, Iggy is located inside Bowser's Seizures Palace Hotel, in Bowser's Barbecue Room. In his battle against Mario in Hotel Mario, Iggy wears an over-sized Bowser mask and, along with jumping between floors, can spit fireballs and summon a small amount of lightning that can strike Mario. He is one of the three Koopalings who would not try to eat Mario or Luigi (the other two being Lemmy and Wendy), which may be because he does not use elevators, or perhaps due to his mask. Iggy's Bowser mask needs to be jumped on repeatedly by Mario to keep him at bay. If Mario closes all the doors while Iggy is on-screen, he will stop and lift his disguise for a moment, revealing himself while making an irritated face towards the player, and then jump off-screen; the real Bowser awaits in the next area.

The Koopalings appear in Mario & Luigi: Superstar Saga, where they are employed by Bowletta to defend Bowser's Castle, which is converted into a flying fortress used to attack Beanbean Castle Town. Iggy is the first of the Koopalings encountered by Mario and Luigi, and before battling the two, Iggy spins rapidly, making Mario and Luigi dizzy and inverting the direction they go toward when the directional buttons are pressed, before fleeing further into his room. Mario and Luigi need to dizzily stumble through the traps in Iggy's room to reach and fight him.
In battle, Iggy either spits up to three fireballs (as with all the Koopalings) or he uses the spinning attack from the overworld.
Defeating Iggy forms a bridge over a river of lava, allowing the Mario Bros. to continue through the castle towards Morton.

Iggy reappears in Mario & Luigi: Paper Jam. Here, he is the only Koopaling and main antagonist to be fought once. Iggy is first seen with Morton, Lemmy and King Bob-omb on top of Mount Brrr, where they shower the land with new enemies and terrain with the help of cannons. When Mario & co. make it to Neo Bowser Castle, Iggy taunts them and signals the rest of the Koopalings that they have arrived. He is later seen helping Bowser and Wendy to stop the Mario gang from obtaining one of the fire orbs needed to create Papercraft Fire Mario. Later on at Neo Bowser Castle, after the Mario gang create the bridge that leads to the Bowsers, Iggy appears at the end of the bridge with Morton and Lemmy. He briefly argues with Lemmy on who gets to press the button to fire a large cannon aimed directly at Peach's Castle before pulling out the controller and quickly pressing the button, in addition to setting a timer. At the end of the game, on top of Neo Bowser Castle, Iggy is encountered one last time along with the rest of the Koopalings, where he is fought alongside Morton and Lemmy. In his battle, Iggy summons a large Chain Chomp that chases the Mario Bros. Iggy is also running from the Chain Chomp and attempts to run into the Mario Bros. to damage them. If the Mario Bros successfully avoid Iggy, he will get tired and get damaged by the Chain Chomp and sent back to his spot in a dizzy state. He remains dizzy until it is his turn to attack again. After the battle, Iggy utters some last words, where he tells Bowser and Paper Bowser to forgive them and destroy Mario and the others before exploding.

Iggy appears in Mario & Luigi: Superstar Saga + Bowser's Minions with the same role as the original game, now with dialogue. He now has the ability to temporarily swap up to two of the brothers' stats (POW, DEF, SPEED, STACHE) with each other's. His fireball attack has been modified slightly—he now spits three or four fireballs in rapid succession, getting closer each time. If the brother avoids all of them, he hesitates for a moment before getting angry and charging into the other bro while flailing his arms. In addition, his spinning attack requires multiple hammer strikes to be stopped instead of one.
Iggy also appears in the added on alternate story mode Minion Quest: The Search for Bowser as a Ranged-type ally. He first appears alongside Wendy and Roy in the game's opening, inside the flying Koopa Cruiser where he teleports atop one of the barrels containing Goombas and taunts them by laughing. He continues laughing even when receiving the news that the Koopa Cruiser took a direct hit to the main engine from Fawful and Cackletta's prior attack and that it was going to blow up. Later, he and the other Koopalings get brainwashed by Fawful and try to conquer the Beanbean Kingdom afterwards. Iggy is recruited after the player defeats him in the Chucklehuck Woods. Iggy attacks by shooting magic blasts at enemies. His special skill, Power Up, allows him to raise the power of minions near him, with the range expanding the higher the meter is filled.

Iggy appears in Mario & Luigi: Bowser's Inside Story + Bowser Jr.'s Journey, in the game's new side story Bowser Jr.'s Journey. He is the only one of the Koopalings to be a flying type by piloting the Koopa Clown Car instead of being on foot. Iggy first battles Bowser Jr. alongside Wendy to test his strength, after which they both join his side and help find the ingredients for Skeletone Formula:D. Iggy was among the second-to-last of the Koopalings to leave the group, having initially stayed behind in order to help Bowser Jr. retrieve the Giga-Carrot, being told by Bowser Jr. to scram due to not liking his "weird" behavior. Iggy was largely reluctant, due to feeling like he could go several miles, but ultimately heeded Bowser Jr.'s orders. He then nearly fell off a cliff, which he mentioned that even for him, that would not have been humorous at all. Unfortunately, he ended up shoved off by the Best Fitness Friends shortly afterwards in an ambush. He survived, although he was left amnesiac as a result, resulting in him being taken in by Kuzzle due to the latter mistaking him for his long-lost grandson Charlie. When Bowser Jr. and Kamek find Iggy, they attempt to convince him to go with them, however Iggy keeps speaking in non-sensical slang sentences, completely out of his usual character which irritates and confuses Bowser Jr. and Kamek. Bowser Jr., deciding to prove to Kamek he was willing to fulfill his earlier promise of helping the minions beyond personal glory, proceeded to fight Iggy to "cure" his amnesia, which worked to a certain extent (although Iggy admitted he still hadn't quite recovered much of his memory afterward), at which point Iggy rejoins Bowser Jr.'s side for the rest of the game. In a flashback to when Bowser told the Koopalings to look after Bowser Jr., Iggy when hearing Bowser mentioning he wanted Bowser Jr. to become as "strong and wise" as him brashly laughed and accused Bowser of joking about the latter bit, and implied that Bowser was even crazier than Iggy himself, which resulted in an irate Bowser punching Iggy across the room in retaliation for the insubordinate retort before reiterating his orders to the other Koopalings, with Iggy still laughing despite being in pain.
Iggy is the first of the group to notice the Dark Star's ultimate destruction and tells everyone to come see. During the resulting celebrations, Iggy is placed inside a cannon by Bowser Jr. to be fired, presumably as part of entertainment.

A Mii costume of Iggy appears in the Wii version of Mario & Sonic at the London 2012 Olympic Games and Mario & Sonic at the Sochi 2014 Olympic Winter Games.

Iggy appears in NES Remix 2 in a Super Mario Bros. 3 challenge. The player has to beat him with a Frog Suit.

Iggy, alongside the rest of the Koopalings, appears as a playable character for the first time in Mario Kart 8, where he is an unlockable character. This time, he is voiced by Ryan Higgins. His nickname in a Japanese Nintendo Direct for Mario Kart 8 is ｢黒ぶちメガネのトリックスター」, or "Trickster with the Black-Framed Glasses" (localized as the "Real Wild Child" or "Trickster with the Sweet Specs"). His emblem is a yellow-green silhouette of his head on a black background. Despite having four fangs, his emblem only has two.
Although Iggy is the tallest of the Koopalings, he is classified as a middleweight racer (alongside Mario, Luigi, Ludwig, and Miis with medium height), offering him relatively balanced stat attributes. Iggy is the Staff Ghost for Tick-Tock Clock which is possibly a reference on how he is an inventor (since the track takes place in a mechanical-like setting). There is also an advertisement for "Crystal Clear Windshields" by "Iggy's Glass" seen on a side of a truck in Toad's Turnpike.
Iggy's main color for his Standard parts and Pipe Frame is his signature light green, and his secondary color is purple. The color scheme selection of his other parts is also based on light green, making it similar to that of Light Green Miis. Expections to this are his Sneeker and GLA.
Iggy returns in the Nintendo Switch port Mario Kart 8 Deluxe, now available from the start. He remains a middleweight character, sharing statistics with Luigi and Kamek. Compared to Mario, Ludwig, and middleweight Miis, they have better handling but worse traction.

Iggy appears in Mario Kart Tour as a Normal driver, introduced in the Tokyo Tour along with the rest of the Koopalings. His special skill is the Triple Green Shells.
Since his introduction in the Tokyo Tour, Iggy has appeared in the First Pipe and Second Pipe of every tour, and is also a part of the base Daily Select set. The following table lists additional availabilities for Iggy throughout the game's history.

Iggy appears alongside the other Koopalings and Bowser Jr. as one of the racing opponents in the virtual reality game Mario Kart Live: Home Circuit. He is seen using his personalized Koopa Clown from Mario Kart 8 Deluxe.

Iggy (alongside the other Koopalings) makes his Super Smash Bros. debut as a playable character accessible via Bowser Jr.'s alternate costumes in Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS and Super Smash Bros. for Wii U. He, like Bowser Jr. and his siblings, is unlockable in the former game and available from the start in the latter. His attacks and statistics are identical to Bowser Jr.'s, though he is referred to by his own name by the announcer and has his own voice clips. Iggy can also appear in place of Bowser Jr. in All-Star mode (like the other Koopalings).
Like the other Koopalings, he is actually driving a mass-produced version of the Junior Clown Car (as noted by the yellow light bulbs that serve as its eyes). The rim and propeller of his Junior Clown Car are colored light green (his signature color). Interestingly, when the Clown Car Dash special move is used, the exhaust pipes that appear behind Iggy's Clown Car are colored yellow. He also reuses his voice clips from his appearance in New Super Mario Bros. Wii, thus he is voiced by Mike Vaughn.
The title given to Iggy in the Boxing Ring is "The Laughing Prankster" in the Wii U version. Iggy's trophy in these games are posed similarly to his artwork from New Super Mario Bros. 2.

In Super Smash Bros. Ultimate, Iggy (alongside the other Koopalings) returns as a playable character accessible via Bowser Jr.'s alternate costumes. He is once again an unlockable character, like in Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS. Just like in the previous game, his attacks and statistics are identical to Bowser Jr.'s, though he is referred to by his own name by the announcer and has his own voice clips. Unlike in Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS / Wii U, all seven Koopalings (Iggy included) now use their magic wands for any occasion where Bowser Jr. would use his hammer. These occasions include all corresponding attacks, their side taunt, and one of their victory poses.

Iggy appears in Puzzle & Dragons: Super Mario Bros. Edition as a Wood attribute character. He's the World 5-Castle and World 5-Airship Boss. Iggy will join the player when ★World 5-Airship is completed. His Skill is Iggy's Hurricane, which changes all Orbs into Wood Orbs.

In the Super Mario Mash-up in Minecraft, Iggy appears as a playable skin along with the rest of the Koopalings.

Iggy makes his Paper Mario series debut in Paper Mario: Color Splash. He guards the yellow Big Paint Star in The Golden Coliseum where he battles against Mario, together with a Hammer Bro and a Snifit. All three of them ride on a chariot attached to a Chain Chomp. Iggy is introduced as a gladiator and the crowd cheers him up.
At the beginning of the battle, Iggy hops out of his chariot and fights on foot. He either attacks with his magic wand up to three times in a turn or by spinning his shell, dealing in both cases 16 HP of damage per attack. Once he receives enough damage, he hops on his chariot and lets his minions on the chariots attack for one turn. They cannot be hit with direct attacks, as they escape said attacks thanks to the chariots. After one turn, Iggy comes back and the minions attack Mario, while Iggy taunts Mario by slapping his behind. However, if the Bone Thing card is used, Princess defeats Iggy's minions and destroys all the chariots, leaving Iggy on foot again. At this point, he can be defeated with normal attacks. If the Bone Thing is used before Iggy arrives on his chariot, he will instantly defeat Mario by crushing him with a Thwomp that deals 999 damage after Mario's turn. Lastly, Iggy is resistant to the Lemon Thing, even after his chariot is destroyed. Once Iggy and his minions are defeated, Mario wins the big Yellow Paint Star.
Iggy also serves as the announcer of The Golden Coliseum, as his speech bubble sound is heard before he appears on-screen. While the English dialogue does not elaborate on this, the Japanese and some European versions state he was the announcer.
Unlike most paper characters, Iggy still has blue eyes with visible irises; for the first time since his redesign in New Super Mario Bros. Wii, he also has visible eyelids in this game, their color being white instead of green like in artwork for Super Mario World. Strangely, when Iggy moves his eyes in this game, the blue rings do not move, but they are covered by the eyelids and completely disappear when Iggy closes his eyes.

Iggy is included (along with the other Koopalings) as a Boss in the Boss Deck of Monopoly Gamer. He is the fourth Boss in the deck.

While Iggy and the other Koopalings do not appear in Mario Tennis Aces, their airships can be seen in the background of the Savage Sea court.

While Iggy and the other Koopalings do not physically appear in Mario Golf: Super Rush, they make a cameo as one of the names competing in the Bonny Greens Open tournament.

Iggy appears as a doctor under the name Dr. Iggy in Dr. Mario World. He was added on January 13, 2021. Dr. Iggy is available as a special stage reward in World 30. Dr. Iggy's skill involves floatie viruses, which is represented by him dancing while a wand is waved in stage mode, where in stage mode it immediately eliminates up to 3 of them even if they are covered in another object (e.g. ice) unless they are locked behind cages, while in versus mode it sends a number of them to the opponent's play area, where they fill in any gaps available starting from the topmost row, followed by left to right. Each floatie virus sent this way only requires eliminating once to fully remove. The amount of floatie viruses sent by this skill differ based on level, where it is three at level 1 and fifteen at level 5 (the latter with the added effect of filling the skill meter faster). In stage mode, using this skill when there are no more floatie viruses left will eliminate a random virus or object (if there are no viruses left), although capsules cannot be removed by this skill.

Iggy was originally going to appear in Super Princess Peach, although he was taken out of the final game with the rest of the Koopalings. Out of all the Koopalings, Iggy is the only one with an animated sprite, and is in one of the test rooms hidden in the game.

As most of the other Koopalings, Iggy has a yellow and tan skin complexion, as well as a green head, a four-ribbed plated belly and padded feet. Iggy also shows similar teeth to Morton's. Iggy has a lanky appearance and he seems to be about twice as tall as Mario. He also has light green hair with dark green fades at the points that resembles leaves of a pineapple. He wears large, black-framed glasses over his eyes with light blue rings that disappear when he closes his eyes, thus suggesting that they are his irises. Artwork made for Super Mario World also depicts his eyes as eccentric swirls to indicate that the glasses he wears have very thick lenses, which is a common gag in Japanese media that Iggy shares with Professor E. Gadd, Professor Frankly, Fawful, and Francis. Furthermore, in the same game, he is shown to have eyelids that return in Paper Mario: Color Splash. His shell has a lime-green hue matching the color of his hair and features purple rings around the spikes, which are beige-colored. As well as his distinctive glasses, he wears the same metal, spiked cuffs as the other Koopalings.
In Super Mario Bros. 3 and Super Mario World, Iggy's in-game sprites depict him with white hair (orange-yellow in Super Mario Bros. 3's All-Stars remake) and a blue shell, most likely to differentiate his sprites from those of Larry (who is also depicted with white hair, but still has a green shell) while simultaneously respecting the technical limitations of the NES and SNES; however, in his official artwork for both games, Iggy is still shown wearing his green shell. Furthermore, in his Super Mario World boss battle, he uses Larry's hairstyle despite his own style existing in the game's graphics; he, however, uses his correct hair style in the cast roll.
Iggy's appearance in the Super Smash Bros. series is unaltered compared to the other Super Mario characters, including Bowser. In Super Smash Bros. Ultimate, however, Iggy receives a slightly darker and subdued color scheme, while his hair, spikes, shell, and glasses receive simple detailing. These traits are mostly shared with Bowser Jr. and the Koopalings.

Iggy has seen a few redesigns since his preliminary sketch, which only showed the head. Said sketch already features the distinctive glasses as well as the usual four protruding teeth and the mohawk. Differences with respect to his final design in Super Mario Bros. 3 include the mouth, which is feline-shaped instead of being concave in the upper side like in the final design, and his mohawk, which features many more strands, some of which are pointing to the side instead of pointing mainly upward like they do in the artwork of Super Mario Bros. 3. Notably, in artwork for Super Mario Bros. 3 the blue rings around the pupils appear even when Iggy closes his eyes, indicating their role in place of the swirls that appear in the sketch, in artwork made for Super Mario World on the other hand swirls very similar to the ones appearing in the preliminary sketch are shown in place of the pupils and said blue rings.
During his redesign in New Super Mario Bros. Wii, the most visible change affects the hair. Before, Iggy's hairstyle was a mohawk whose colors were magenta, cyan and yellow like Lemmy's mohawk since the Nintendo Official Guidebook of Super Mario Collection; in his new design, his hair is yellow-green in color and points upwards, spiting into four "tufts" at the tip. Furthermore, Iggy is given a lankier appearance and the color of his shell is changed to a more yellow-hued green to match the color of his hair, while the spikes become beige-colored instead of white and purple rings surrounding them appear on the shell.

Although previously known for his intelligence as well as how much he studied and knew, with the Nintendo Adventure Books confirming this trait by portraying him as an inventor considered by Bowser the brainy one, Iggy is now more often known and portrayed as well in Japanese material for his own frivolous personality, reported in the English localization of certain games, as well as official English guides, as if he was insane by using terms like demented and crazed. This trait is manifested both through his enthusiasm sometimes ending up in hyperactivity as well as by his typical happy facial expressions, shown since his artwork in Super Mario Bros. 3, accompanied by very frequent laughs. Regardless of his frivolous nature, however, he has shown some degree of common sense, as he was notably the first Koopaling to speculate that the reason minions randomly attacked them in Bowser Jr.'s Journey was because they had been brainwashed by Fawful, and ultimately turned out to be correct about that. He also is indicated to have a short temper, as one of his specials in Bowser Jr.'s Journey has him getting angry and slamming his Koopa Clown Car on an enemy while wreathed in flames, and then making clear he was still angry. On a similar note, in Bowser Jr. Journey, he is also shown to be extremely protective of Bowser Jr., although not quite to the extent of Morton, as the aforementioned special has him demanding to know in anger who harmed Bowser Jr. with Bowser Jr. pointing to the enemies before conducting the aforementioned special move on the target.
The enthusiasm and hyperactivity manifest themselves in the subsequent higher agility shown both in Super Mario Bros. 3 as well as in the one-armed handstand he's able to perform in his picture shown in Super Mario Wisdom Games Picture Book 6: Mario Versus Bowser. In New Super Mario Bros. U, he also frequently runs around and even runs and stands upside-down, although it's in Mario Kart 8 that the hyperactivity is evident, as a few of his stunts have him jumping out of his kart and running in place, or being too excited that he flails about on his bike as if he's about to fall off. His hyperactivity is further alluded to in Bowser Jr.'s Journey, where he stated he was feeling like a long journey into distant lands in protest when Bowser Jr. demanded that he leave.
The frequent laughter on the other hand is a more consistently displayed trait. In the original Super Mario Bros. 3 manual, he has a crazed laughter (downplayed in the English localization), being present as well in the in-game English dialogue of Super Mario World. Before his rematch in his world's castle in New Super Mario Bros. Wii, he is heard laughing at the animal noises outside his window and laughing exhilaratingly during the battle itself. In Mario Kart 8, he can be heard giggling and laughing through various parts of the race. His laughter is featured both in Mario & Luigi: Paper Jam and in Mario & Luigi: Superstar Saga + Bowser's Minions, where in the latter, he laughs even when the Koopa Cruiser is about to explode.  Similarly, in New Super Mario Bros. Wii and New Super Mario Bros. U, whenever he encounters Mario, he shouts as if he's rather excited to see him, unlike the other Koopalings. Paper Mario: Color Splash has him frequently laughing when fighting against Mario. The laughter can sometimes be a way to mock people, even when they are supposed to feel fear. This aspect of the laughter is first seen in the manual of Super Mario Bros. 3, where he cackles and deduces that Mario must be getting nervous about his upcoming fight against him, and is seen again in Paper Mario: Color Splash, where the laughters are often accompanied by mockery, sometimes directed at the fear Mario is supposedly having of him. Indeed, he is also said to provoke opponents with a joking attitude, such as when he smacks his rear end in front of his adversary in New Super Mario Bros. Wii, New Super Mario Bros. 2 and Paper Mario: Color Splash. The latter game even referenced this trait with one of his nicknames prior to entering the arena to personally challenge Mario for the yellow Big Paint Star: "The Spectacled Spanker." In New Super Mario Bros. U, the taunt is limited to a laughter after the initial shout. Furthermore, in Mario Kart 8 he also has a taunting laughter when he manages to hit someone with one of his items. However, despite his joking and more eccentric nature, he does have his reservations, as he mentioned once that even he wouldn't find it funny if he walked over a cliff shortly after being forced to leave Bowser Jr.'s command.
He has his own Chain Chomp pet, seen first in New Super Mario Bros. Wii and then reappeared in New Super Mario Bros. 2 and Mario & Luigi: Paper Jam. Volume 42 of Super Mario-kun shows that he is rather neglectful and abusive towards his pet, as he left it wandering in his castle until it was lost, starving, and stuck in a grate for one month before its encounter with Mario and his friends, and even calls it "stupid" for getting itself lost. In the same volume, he considers himself to be smart and, through his calculations (which consists of various doodles with mathematical symbols), believed he figured out how to defeat his foes. Though he claims he could easily beat Mario, he felt the reader would get bored and decided to have his Chain Chomp do away with the group instead.
In The Adventures of Super Mario Bros. 3 and Super Mario World, Hop is quite childish in personality, and he often pulls pranks instead of causing true crimes, though some episodes, such as "Life's Ruff", depict him acting more mischievous than usual.
In the Nintendo Comics System and Super Mario Adventures, Iggy's personality is largely identical to that of the other Koopalings, with him having no real defining characteristics. He mostly hangs around with Lemmy, who looks a lot like Iggy. Iggy and Lemmy pull pranks together and cause trouble, acting childish. He also seems to think Bowser is somewhat stupid and acts as if he is smarter. This gets a brief reference in Mario & Luigi: Bowser's Inside Story + Bowser Jr.'s Journey, where Iggy openly refuses to acknowledge Bowser was smart or wise and in the English version even implies that Bowser was even crazier than Iggy was for thinking that (which resulted in Bowser punching him across the room before reiterating his orders to the Koopalings to look after Bowser Jr. while he goes to Peach's Castle).
In Mario is Missing!, Iggy speaks completely in rhyme and cannot stand still.
Mario Kart 8 shows that he has a glass manufacturing company, Iggy's Glass, which according to its slogan, produces glass for windshields. The Japanese Mario Kart 8 Direct also calls him a trickster. In the English localization of Super Smash Bros. for Wii U this term is used as well to refer to him in place of the frivolous person term used in the original Japanese text.
Mario & Luigi: Paper Jam shows Iggy in a calmer fashion, not nearly as frivolous as he was, but now also quite childish in personality when together with Lemmy. However, in the opening for Minion Quest: The Search for Bowser, an alternate story mode for the remake for Mario & Luigi: Superstar Saga, his more demented nature is implied by his continuing to laugh, even when learning that the Koopa Cruiser was about to blow in contrast to Roy and Wendy's shocked reactions to the news.
In Paper Mario: Color Splash, Iggy is shown to be pretty arrogant and prone to mocking Mario as well as intimidating him, as evidenced by his mockingly claiming that Mario should look at a mirror to see "the look on his face" when he and his fellow chariot riders arrived, as well as by his referring to himself as "[Mario's] frustratingly overpowered opponent" and derisively referring to Mario as both "pretty boy" and "paper pusher" and taunting him by slapping his behind. His attempts at intimidating Mario even go as far as him asking his minions to tear Mario to pieces, offering 50 coins to whoever brings him Mario's hat. Finally, he's shown to be something of a graceful loser, as he willingly allows Mario to get the Yellow Big Paint Star upon being beaten, although not without feeling humiliated at losing on his own "home turf".
While having amnesia and under the identity of "Charlie" in Mario & Luigi: Bowser's Inside Story + Bowser Jr.'s Journey, Iggy proceeded to use slang terms often enough that subtitles were required.

Iggy is the fastest of the Koopalings, which is highlighted in Super Mario Bros. 3 where he not only manages to fire his magic wand's spells at a faster rate than his siblings, but even fires two sets of spells at a time. Iggy rides a Chain Chomp in his boss battle in New Super Mario Bros. Wii and New Super Mario Bros. 2, utilizing a custom track. He can spin as a top in Mario & Luigi: Superstar Saga and even move fast enough to make his opponents dizzy. In the alternate story mode Minion Quest: The Search for Bowser in the game's remake, he's also able to swiftly appear on top of a barrel containing Goombas in a manner that resembles teleportation. Like all the Koopalings in that game, he can also spit fireballs; he can also throw fireballs in Super Mario World, which he holds in his hands before throwing them. As shown in New Super Mario Bros Wii, his magic blasts are the most chaotic out of all the Koopalings. In Hotel Mario he can cause small amounts of lightning to rain down on Mario. In addition, his unused sprites in Super Princess Peach show that the Koopaling was to use his hair as a spear. In New Super Mario Bros. U, Iggy has the ability to stand and walk upside down on ceilings and fire at least two varieties of spells: one being his normal chaotic green spell, and the other being red orbs that upon making contact with lava will summon Magmaarghs.

This is a list of all voice actors for Iggy Koopa.

In addition to this, the "Animal, Creature - Large Animal Death Scream" stock sound also used for Bowser in some games is used for Iggy when he is defeated in Super Mario World: Super Mario Advance 2.