"Isle Delfino", also known as "Delfino Plaza", is a recurring musical theme written by Koji Kondo that first appears in Super Mario Sunshine, where it serves as the background music for Delfino Plaza. The original song and arrangements of it have also appeared in later games.

"Isle Delfino" is in the key of A major, and its arrangement invokes Italian folk music. The melody alternates between guitar and accordion, while another guitar provides rhythm and an upright bass adds the pizzicato bassline.

Super Mario Sunshine features many arrangements of "Isle Delfino." The themes from Ricco Harbor, Gelato Beach, Bianco Hills, the episode select screen, and the staff credits are all arrangements of Delfino Plaza's melody. 
"Ricco Harbor" is in the key of C-major and is arranged in a ska style, with prominent saxophone and electric guitar instrumentation. 
"Bianco Hills" is also in the key of C major and is arranged in the style of European folk music, with prominent use of clarinet, flute, and oboe, accompanied by tambourine, castanets, and harp. 
"Gelato Beach" is once again in the key of C-major and is arranged in the style of Trinidadian calypso, with prominent saxophone and steel drum instrumentation. 
"Select Scenerio" only consists of a few music box-like notes from the main motif of "Delfino Plaza". 
"Staff Credits" is an upbeat Latin arrangement of "Isle Delfino" featuring sports whistles and a roaring crowd in the background, likely referencing soccer games, a very popular sport in Latin America.
With "Isle Delfino," "Ricco Harbor," "Bianco Hills," and "Gelato Beach," a woodblock beat is added to the instrumentation when Mario rides Yoshi.
The woodblock remix can be heard in the second half of the original "Delfino Plaza" track in Super Smash Bros. Brawl, Super Smash Bros. for Wii U, and Super Smash Bros. Ultimate. It is also reused for the same purpose in Super Mario 3D All-Stars, the Nintendo Switch remake of Super Mario Sunshine.

In Super Mario 64 DS, an arrangement of "Isle Delfino" serves as the background music for Sunshine Isles.

In Super Mario Bros. Wonder, after clearing the Break Time! Bouncy Tunes level, the ending nine notes of the theme are played on the glockenspiel as coins appear at the corresponding note positions on the staff, with the final note being a Wonder Seed.

In Mario Kart: Double Dash!!, an arrangement of "Isle Delfino" plays as a part of the trophy ceremony's theme, which takes place on Peach Beach, a race course whose design is heavily inspired by locations from Super Mario Sunshine.

In Mario Power Tennis, Delfino Plaza Court features two arrangements of "Isle Delfino," composed by Motoi Sakuraba for the court's Intro and Exhibition themes. The exhibition arrangement is titled 「ドルピックタウン　ギミックコート ～ドルピックタウンコート」(Dorupikku Taun Gimikku Kōto ~ Dorupikku Taun Kōto, "Delfino Plaza Gimmick Court ~ Delfino Plaza Court").
Both of these arrangements are reused for the same purpose in New Play Control! Mario Power Tennis, the game's Wii port.

In the Japan-exclusive Itadaki Street DS, an arrangement of "Isle Delfino" serves as the background music for the Delfino Plaza board.

The Delfino Plaza board returns in Fortune Street, and its background music is a new arrangement of "Isle Delfino".

An arrangement of "Isle Delfino" is included as a playable track in the Wii version of Mario & Sonic at the Olympic Winter Games. This arrangement returns as a track in the Wii version of Mario & Sonic at the London 2012 Olympic Games.

Three new arrangements of "Isle Delfino" are included in Mario & Sonic at the Sochi 2014 Olympic Winter Games and they serve as the background music for the Snow Day Street Hockey Dream Event, which takes place in Delfino Plaza. The arrangement of the song that plays depends on which area of Delfino Plaza the match takes place, with a different version each for Main Street, Market Street, and Coin Street.

An arrangement of "Isle Delfino" is included as a track in Super Smash Bros. Ultimate, titled "Delfino Plaza (Remix)" and arranged by Noriyuki Iwadare. The track can be played on any Super Smash Bros.- and Super Mario-series stage.

Nintendo Live 2023 in Seattle, Washington, USA featured a live performance by the Super Mario Super Big Band of themes from various Super Mario games, including "Isle Delfino" and "Staff Credits."