Jammin' Toad, also known as the Toad wearing headphones or simply Toad, is a Toad wearing headphones.

The Toad wearing headphones was introduced in version 3.0.4 of Super Mario Run. They only appear after completing a round of Remix 10 for the first time. Afterward, he is found in the Kingdom Builder mode, standing on a stump in the bottom right corner of the screen featuring Peach's Castle. If tapped on, he opens a menu that can mute the in game music while allowing the player to play music from the player's music library on their mobile device over the game. While this option is toggled on, this Toad has different animations where he listens to music. Some of them have him dancing. Additionally, the player character becomes Headphone Mario to represent the mechanic, wearing large headphones much like this Toad.

Jammin' Toad gains a more prominent role in Super Mario Odyssey, where he appears in the Sand Kingdom, Wooded Kingdom, Metro Kingdom, Luncheon Kingdom, and Mushroom Kingdom after the player completes the main story. In each of these kingdoms, he requests a certain music piece from the player, sometimes one that relates to an area in the kingdom that Jammin' Toad is in. The player must find and select the correct piece of music from the in-game Music List, after which Jammin' Toad rewards Mario with a Power Moon.
If the player fulfills three of Jammin' Toad's requests, "Honeylune Ridge: Escape (8-Bit)" is unlocked in the Music List. Fulfilling all five of Jammin' Toad's requests unlocks the "Music Maestro" Toadette achievement in the Mushroom Kingdom, as well as the song "NDC Festival (8-Bit)," which can be requested to play over the New Donk City Festival instead of the original version of the song.
When idle, Jammin' Toad peacefully listens to music on his headphones, with colored musical notes appearing near him. However, like any other NPC, he gets scared and is not able to talk to Mario if an enemy approaches him (regardless of whether the enemy is being captured or not).
Jammin' Toad hands out the following Power Moons: