Jelectros are enemies introduced in Super Mario Bros. 3. They are glowing, electric jellyfish that slightly bob in place underwater.

Jelectros appear in Super Mario Bros. 3. Jelectros are invincible to all attacks, even Invincible Mario and hammers. Jelectros are first encountered in World 3-5, being spread throughout, while in World 7-4, a large swarm of them is encountered in the middle of the level. Jelectros are like Munchers in that the game programs them as damaging, animated scenery tiles, making them an indestructible solid surface. Artwork of the Jelectros depict them as smooth, as opposed to the gray spots on their sprites. Additionally, the remakes recolor the Jelectros to be blue, instead of black.
Jelectros bob up and down in place in Super Mario Advance 4: Super Mario Bros. 3, rather than staying completely still. They also appear in one World-e level, Sea to Sky.

Jelectros are course elements in Super Mario Maker, its Nintendo 3DS version, and Super Mario Maker 2. They replace the Spike Traps when creating a course in the Super Mario Bros. 3 underwater theme, keeping their properties from Super Mario Bros. 3. In Super Mario Maker, they are only identified as Spike Traps, but Super Mario Maker 2 calls them by their actual name.

Jelectros also make appearances in The Adventures of Super Mario Bros. 3. Here they are similar to their game appearances, except they have glowing red eyes and yellow tentacles. They appear in episodes such as "Reptiles in the Rose Garden", where they can actually move, and "The Ugly Mermaid", where they stand still like they originally do in Super Mario Bros. 3.

A Jelectro appears in the printing software, Super Mario Bros. Print World, in the artwork entitled "Swimming Mario" alongside Mario.

A Jelectro makes a cameo appearance on the Marine Biologist page in Super Mario Bros. & Friends: When I Grow Up, and is even mentioned in the description.

In the Nintendo Adventure Book Leaping Lizards, Luigi spots some Jelectros through a window while exploring Iggy Koopa's secret underwater lab in Water Land. Three weeks later, some Jelectros appear in the swimming portion of the International Mushroom Games obstacle course. If the reader chooses Luigi to compete in the course, one of the Jelectros will shock and briefly stun him as soon as he enters the water.