Jinx is a martial arts master who operates a dojo in Monstro Town in Super Mario RPG: Legend of the Seven Stars. Although he is extremely small, he is also enormously powerful. Visiting the dojo is not necessary to completing the game, and is an optional sidequest. If Mario walks inside the dojo, Jinx's student Jagger will notice Bowser and kindly offer a challenge against the party. After beating Jagger, his Sensei Jinx reveals himself and can be fought. 
Jinx can be defeated up to three times, getting exponentially stronger with each fight, with higher attack, defense, and HP stats. He also introduces Quicksilver in the second fight and Bombs Away (which has extremely high attack power) in the third fight. After winning the third fight, Jinx rewards Mario and his allies with the Jinx Belt, the symbol of his power which is to be worn by the highest-ranking member. Jinx also quickly declares Mario the new Sensei of the dojo, calling it "Mario Style Dojo" and giving up his title. Jagger and Jinx immediately train in Mario's apparent style of martial arts, beginning their training regimen of jumping one thousand times. In spite of this, they continue to do this tirelessly for the rest of the game, and Mario is never directly seen instructing his dojo.
Jinx paved the way for the Master in Paper Mario; both Jinx and the Master are optional martial arts-themed bosses in their respective games that are fought in three progressively more challenging battles. Both also have a student (or two) who are fought before them: Jagger for Jinx and Chan and Lee for the Master. 
During the battle against Wizakoopa, he may create a Jinx Clone to defend himself.
In the Nintendo Switch remake, Jinx can be refought after defeating Smithy. At the start of the battle, the Action Gauge is reset, and the party must refill it and use any Triple Move to end the battle. If any party member fails an Action Command, Jinx immediately attacks that party member with Silver Bullet. After defeating Culex 3D then defeating Smithy, Jinx, along with Jagger and Culex in his 2D form, appears in the credits scene with Monstermama and the other characters.
A sprite of Jinx is present in the data of the E3 2003 demo of Mario & Luigi: Superstar Saga.