"Jump Up, Super Star!" (also referred to as "1-Up Girl") is the theme song of Super Mario Odyssey sung by Pauline. The song is performed by the Super Mario Players and sung by Kate Higgins (credited as Kate Davis) in English and songwriter Aimi Mukohara in Japanese. It was composed by Naoto Kubo. The original lyrics were written by Nobuyoshi Suzuki, and the English lyrics were written by Rob Tunstall.
The song was first released worldwide on October 20, 2017, as a single titled "Super Mario Odyssey - Jump Up, Super Star!" on the iTunes Store. The song was also used in the E3 2017 trailer for the game.

Nobuyoshi Suzuki, the sound designer of Super Mario Odyssey, wrote the first draft of the lyrics in Japanese. According to Yoshiaki Koizumi, they had a discussion on whether words such as "1UP" should be used. They sent all of the documents they had to the localization members to create the final lyrics, due to English being a more global language, as Koizumi stated. This resulted in a back-and-forth between localization members and the Japanese developers as they struggled to keep the references to the Super Mario franchise as subtle as possible. He also indicated on Reddit that the song had been created as a direct result of their developing the character of Pauline.
The English version was the first to be recorded with voice actress Kate Higgins providing the vocals. According to herself, Cup of Tea Productions, Inc. was in charge of the voice acting. When asked if she was interested in doing the voice, she agreed and auditioned for the role by sending samples of her voice to Nintendo of Japan, and she was ultimately selected for the role. Weeks before the recording session, Nintendo of Japan sent her a demo sung by an unknown Japanese singer and a lead sheet, with the music already recorded. Several people from Japan and America were present in the final recording.
For the Japanese version, the Nintendo Sound Team already had some candidates, but after the team listened to her YouTube videos, songwriter Aimi Mukohara was chosen to do the vocals. All the Nintendo Sound Team was present at the moment of recording. This is the first time Mukohara was involved with the music of any video game.

The song uses an upbeat, big-band jazz style and is most notable for being the first song from the mainline Super Mario series to feature lyrics, something rarely heard in songs from games of the overall Super Mario franchise. The song has Pauline detailing an adventure across the worlds of Super Mario Odyssey, referring to herself as Mario's "1UP girl." The lyrics are also printed on the inside of the game case for all regions.

Here we go, off the rails
Don't you know it's time to raise our sails?
It's freedom like you never knew
Don't need bags, or a pass
Say the word, I'll be there in a flash
You could say my hat is off to you
Oh, we can zoom
All the way to the moon
From this great wide wacky world
Jump with me, grab coins with me
Oh, yeah!
It's time to jump up in the air (Jump up in the air)
Jump up, don't be scared (Jump up, don't be scared)
Jump up and your cares will soar away
And if the dark clouds start to swirl, (Dark clouds start to swirl)
Don't fear, don't shed a tear, 'cause
I'll be your 1UP girl
So let's all jump up super high (Jump up super high)
High up in the sky (High up in the sky)
There's no power-up like dancing
You know that you're my superstar (You're my superstar)
No one else can take me this far
I'm flipping the switch
Get ready for this
Oh, let's do the odyssey
Odyssey, ya see! (×7)
Odyssey, odyssey!

Spin the wheel, take a chance
Every journey starts a new romance
A new world's calling out to you
Take a turn, off the path
Find a new addition to the cast
You know that any captain needs a crew
Take it in stride
As you move side-to-side
They're just different points of view
Jump with me, grab coins with me
Oh, yeah!
Come on and jump up in the air (Jump up in the air)
Jump without a care (Jump without a care)
Jump up 'cause you know that I'll be there
And if you find you're short on joy, (Find you're short on joy)
Don't fret, just don't forget that
You're still our 1UP boy
So go on, straighten up your cap (Straighten up your cap)
Let your toes begin to tap (Toes begin to tap)
This rhythm is a power 'shroom
Don't forget you're the superstar (You're the superstar)
No one else could make it this far
Put a comb through that 'stache
Now you've got panache
Oh, let's do the odyssey

It's time to jump up in the air (Jump up in the air)
Jump up, don't be scared (Jump up, don't be scared)
Jump up and your cares will soar away
And if the dark clouds start to swirl, (Dark clouds start to swirl)
Don't fear, don't shed a tear, 'cause
I'll be your 1UP girl
Now listen, all you boys and girls (All you boys and girls)
All around the world (All around the world)
Don't be afraid to get up and move
You know that we're all superstars (We're all superstars)
We're the ones who made it this far
Put a smile on that face
There's no time to waste
So, let's do the odyssey

a - 「女神がキスをした」 (megami ga kisu o shita) is a common way in Japan to say that the universe is on one's side, meaning things will go well.
b - While the literal translation is "touch," the verb is referring to the action of grabbing coins as the coin sound effect implies, so another possible translation could be "grab."
c - 「肩落とす」 (lit. "drop/lower one's shoulders") means to be discouraged. It may also be a reference to how when Mario's health is low, he "drops" his shoulders when idle.

Super Mario Odyssey features several arrangements and remixes of "Jump Up, Super Star!" During the story mission A Fresh Start for the City, each of the four band members around the Metro Kingdom can be heard playing their respective parts of "Jump Up, Super Star!" when approached.
The theme heard on the game's title screen is a simplified instrumental arrangement of "Jump Up, Super Star!" titled 「タイトル」 (Taitoru, "Title") in the game's Japanese soundtrack.
A variation of "Jump Up, Super Star!" titled "NDC Festival" plays during A Traditional Festival! and on the main surface of the Darker Side. It features a much longer intro than the original version. Upon Mario collecting the Multi Moon, a fanfare arrangement of the song, titled 「伝統のフェスティバル終了!」 (Dentō no Fesutibaru Shūryō!, "End of the Traditional Festival!") in the Japanese soundtrack, plays instead of the standard Multi Moon fanfare.
A version of "NDC Festival" with Japanese lyrics titled "NDC Festival (Japanese)" can be played on boomboxes in the Metro Kingdom and Mushroom Kingdom after Mario hits them with Cappy. This version has its own unique lyrics that differ from the international version.
A chiptune arrangement of "NDC Festival" without vocals titled "NDC Festival (8-Bit)" is unlocked in the Music List after the player fulfills all five of Jammin' Toad's requests. This arrangement can also be played while replaying A Traditional Festival! by asking the New Donker in the Auditorium. Doing so also replaces Pauline's artwork on the billboards with her original sprite from Donkey Kong.
A music box arrangement of "Jump Up, Super Star!" titled 「Jump Up, Super Star! オルゴールバージョン」 (Jump Up, Super Star! Orugōru Bājon, "Jump Up, Super Star! Music Box Version") in the game's Japanese soundtrack may play when Mario jumps on the globe of the Odyssey.
Additionally, the official website for Super Mario Odyssey featured shortened arrangements of the English and Japanese versions of "Jump Up, Super Star!" that end after the "Odyssey, ya see" bridge, the former of which was used in the game's E3 2017 trailer. These were available to be downloaded for free until January 31, 2018.
"NDC Festival" is featured as a playable track in Super Smash Bros. Ultimate, where it can be played on any Super Smash Bros.-series and Super Mario-franchise stage. It is titled "Jump Up, Super Star!" in the Sounds section of the Vault and "Jump Up, Super Star! (Full Band Performance)" in the My Music menu for the New Donk City Hall stage. It also plays in Mario's character trailer.
"NDC Festival" (both with and without vocals) is one of the alarms in the Super Mario Odyssey theme for Nintendo Sound Clock: Alarmo, and the Multi Moon fanfare arrangement plays when the user gets out of bed.

In Super Smash Bros. Ultimate, the New Donk City Hall stage features two separate versions of "Jump Up, Super Star!" in My Music: "Jump Up, Super Star!" and "Jump Up, Super Star! (Full Band Performance)." If the former is selected, only the drums are heard as only the drummer appears in the plaza, while Pauline and the rest of the band members randomly appear throughout the match. Passing by them recruits them to perform their part in the song and appear in the plaza, similar to how their separate parts can be heard during the mission A Fresh Start for the City in Super Mario Odyssey. If the latter song is selected, the song plays as is, and the performers are absent from the stage.

In Mario Kart Tour, "Jump Up, Super Star!" is referenced in several of Pauline's voice lines. When unlocking Pauline, she sings her name to the tune of the theme. When using a Glide Ramp, she will sometimes sing the "high up in the sky" line. During the race, she will times sing the "jump with me" line, and will either speak or sing "I'm a 1UP gal," which is a variation of the line "I'll be your 1UP girl."
All of these lines, except for the one where Pauline sings her name, return for the same purpose in Mario Kart 8 Deluxe.

In Mario Strikers: Battle League, Pauline's theme is a rock arrangement of "Jump Up, Super Star!"

On October 28th, 2017, the official Nintendo LINE account published a version of "Jump Up, Super Star!" sung by Kinopio-kun titled "Jump Up, Super Star! Short Version Free Download" along with a picture of Kinopio-kun dressed as Pauline.

"Jump Up, Super Star!" was performed during The Game Awards 2017 by the Game Awards Orchestra and Kate Higgins as part of a medley of music from the games nominated for Game of the Year.

Super Mario Odyssey Sound Selection, the international soundtrack album for Super Mario Odyssey, features three versions of "Jump Up, Super Star!" not heard in-game. A version of the original song titled "Jump Up, Super Star! Japanese Version" features Japanese lyrics. Shortened, instrumental versions of the song titled "Jump Up, Super Star! [Instrumental Karaoke] (Short Version)" and "Jump Up, Super Star! Japanese Version [Instrumental Karaoke] (Short Version)" only include the backing English and Japanese vocals, respectively, and end after the bridge.

Super Mario Odyssey Original Soundtrack, the Japanese soundtrack album for Super Mario Odyssey, features full-length instrumental versions of the English and Japanese versions of "Jump Up, Super Star!" heard in Super Mario Odyssey Sound Selection. They are titled 「Jump Up, Super Star! カラオケ」 (Jump Up, Super Star! Karaoke, "Jump Up, Super Star! Karaoke") and 「Jump Up, Super Star! ～オデッセイでっせい～ カラオケ」 (Jump Up, Super Star! ~Odessei Dessei~ Karaoke, "Jump Up, Super Star! ~Odyssey, Ya See~ Karaoke"), respectively.

In Dr Kawashima's Brain Training for Nintendo Switch, if the player achieves a rank of "Walking Speed" and taps on the walking figure multiple times, it whistles the first three lines of the chorus.

Nintendo Live 2023 in Seattle, Washington, USA featured a live performance by the Super Mario Super Big Band of themes from various Super Mario games, including an instrumental arrangement of "Jump Up, Super Star!"

1 - Added in Wave 6 of the Mario Kart 8 Deluxe – Booster Course Pass on November 9, 2023

2 - Included in Episode 100 of the Japanese version on October 18, 2017