Jungle Jinx is the first level of the Lost World in Donkey Kong Country 2: Diddy's Kong Quest. It can be accessed from the Klubba's Kiosk in Crocodile Cauldron. The level's name is a reference to the first level from Donkey Kong Country, Jungle Hijinxs. Jungle Jinx is the first jungle-themed level of the Lost World. There are numerous sets of long spikes throughout the level, in gaps and on the main path alike. The Kongs can safely cross over these pits by jumping from giant, rolling tires, which also allow them to reach some higher areas. In specific parts of the level, the tires fall down onto the path and begin to roll—while these objects do not hurt the Kongs, they can easily shove the Kongs down into a pit. Zingers appear more commonly than the other enemies.

From the start of the level, the Kongs must walk east and bounce off of a tire to reach the other end of a ledge. Then, they need to cross an abyss, and then land right on a tire. It will bounce them over some spikes and to safety. From there, they must use some more tires to get up to the top of two high ledges. After that, the heroes will need to jump over the giant tires rolling towards them, and watch out for a Zinger in the air. Once they drop down a high ledge, the monkeys will have to bounce off of another tire to get above two nasty Zingers, and get to the next ledge. Here, they will find a vicious Kutlass, whom they must defeat only when his blades are in the ground, and then travel eastward. After they beat a group of four Spinies, they should watch out for a Klampon and bounce atop of some more tires, which can throw them over Zingers. Then, they will reach an abyss, which is filled with sharp and unwanted spikes. They have to use the fast moving tire to jump over a Zinger, and then safely land on the next ledge. From there, the heroes must cross a small gap and bounce off of several tires to get over more dangerous spikes. Once they pass that part, they need to jump down a ledge, hop off a Flitter, and hit into the Star Barrel.
Halfway through the level, the monkeys will have to travel over the path and leap over another small gap. After that, they must dodge some enemies, including the quick foe, Kutlass. Then, they need to bounce off of several tire, and get over rows of jagged spikes sticking out of the ground. From there, the monkeys must defeat a couple of Klampons, and soon hop down another ledge. A tire will sweep them away from the ground, though, but also save them from possibly landing on the thorny spikes. The Kongs have to jump over tires and other hazards, until they meet up with a huge abyss. This time, there are no tires to help them, so they must follow the banana trail downwards, while trying to stay between the Zingers nearby. They will land into some barrels. With good aim, the heroes should shoot carefully to all the barrels and soon get back up to the other side. Here, they need to bounce off of more tire to get over a few spikes, and then another gap. After that, the monkeys must face their biggest challenge yet. They will have to get over many spikes, using several tires. While doing this, they need to also watch out for the gaps below them, and do their best not to fall in one. Finally, they should make it safely to the other end of the area, and travel more eastward. Once they pass a few enemies and abysses, the heroes will eventually find the End of Level Target. The possible prizes include a banana, Banana Bunch, or the letter G.

The following enemies appear in the following quantities:

The following items and objects appear in the following quantities:

There is only one Bonus Level in Jungle Jinx, of the following type: