Kamek's Toadies (or Kamek's toadies), also known simply as the Toadies, are a group of four that appear as followers of Kamek the Magikoopa. They are the most prominent Toadies in any game they appear, to the point of standard Toadies being given their attributes in Yoshi's Story, where Kamek is absent. The group has not been seen to directly attack and, save for in Yoshi Touch & Go's Time Attack mode, cannot be attacked themselves.

In Super Mario World 2: Yoshi's Island and its reissue, Kamek's Toadies appear to kidnap and carry Baby Mario away if star power runs out. They can appear virtually anywhere if the timer depletes completely, including Froggy's stomach. In the final boss battle, it is possible for Yoshi to shoot down Kamek's Toadies with eggs if they are thrown directly upward. One of Kamek's Toadies also appears on a card in the mini-game Scratch and Match, which is featured as a bonus challenge.

Kamek's Toadies, referred to as Magikoopas in the Player's Guide, reprise their role in the direct sequel to Yoshi's Island, Yoshi's Island DS. Serving Kamek, who has traveled back in time, the Toadies kidnap babies from all over the Mushroom Kingdom, including Baby Mario and Baby Peach. However, the latter two's captors are attacked by the Stork, who saves them from being kidnapped. At the end of the game, they carry the unconscious Bowser away. Additionally, their role in Scratch and Match returns.

Kamek's Toadies appear in Yoshi's New Island, with exactly the same role and behavior as their first appearance.

Kamek's Toadies once more appear in the Club Nintendo comic "Mario in Mariozilla." They help Kamek invade Mario's garden, but when his plan to shrink Mario fails, they flee. The Toadies are later seen during a fight between Mario and Kamek, supporting the Magikoopa. After Kamek and Mario get shrunk by the abilities of the Magikoopa's broom, some Toadies work together with Dr. Light and Princess Toadstool in order to transform their master back.
In this comic, the Toadies look different from their appearance in the games: their actual eyes and pupils are visible behind their glasses, rather than just the spiral form, their characteristic teeth are missing, they wear armor with round short sleeves instead of their usual robes and they possess fingers. The number of Toadies present seemingly fluctuates between panels, with most having four or less but one having seven.

In Yoshi Touch & Go, Yoshi must stop Kamek's Toadies from stealing Baby Luigi in Time Attack mode by throwing eggs at them. The four of Kamek's Toadies (each of which has two hit points, giving the group a total of eight) carry Baby Luigi at the top of the screen, shielded by a group of many purple Toadies that can each absorb one hit. If Yoshi manages to break through the purple Toadies and defeat Kamek's Toadies before the time runs out, he can save Baby Luigi.

Kamek's Toadies appear in the Yoshi's Island microgame in WarioWare Gold if Yoshi does not retrieve Baby Mario before time runs out.

In Super Smash Bros. Ultimate, while Kamek's Toadies do not appear, their artwork is used for the spirit of regular Toadies.