Kamek's Tantalizing Tower (known as Tantalizing Tower Toys in Partner Party) is one of four boards available in Super Mario Party, and it is the only unlockable board of the game, unlocked after playing the other three starting boards once. It takes place in a town of gold set upon a tall tower, with skyscrapers being visible in the background. On this board, Toadies are hosting certain board events, a Chain Chomp and a Thwomp can be interacted with and there is also a large, golden statue of Kamek with a gashapon capsule machine in front of it.

Toadette will always remain at the very end of the board, and she can trade up to 2 Stars at a time when a player reaches her (3 during the homestretch), provided the player has enough coins. The price for a Star will always begin at 10 coins, and it will change whenever a player purchases a Star from Toadette, do not have enough coins to buy a Star from her or if they land on the Event Space in front of the golden Kamek statue. One Star can be purchased for 5, 10 or 15 coins, but the price cannot be the same twice in a row. Blue Spaces and Red Spaces give and take away 6 coins respectively on this board, and this number is increased to 10 during the homestretch. This board has 2 item shops, one hosted by a Flutter, and the other by a Toady, named the Shady Shop. Flutter's Item Shop will only sell Dash Mushrooms, Poison Mushrooms and Coinados. Toady will forcibly sell a Dash Mushroom, Poison Mushroom or a Custom Dice Block to a player who passes his shop, all items costing 6 coins each. Whenever an item is bought from Toady, it will disappear from the stock until each item has been bought once, then the shop is refilled again. The Thwomp on this board blocks a shortcut to Toadette, and he will let a player pass by him if they pay him enough coins, though each player have to give him at least one more coin than the previous player who passed him. The red Warp Pipes on the upper part of the board will transport a player back to the beginning near another red Warp Pipe.  

Toadette offers one Star for purchase when a player lands on the Star Space, (2 during the homestretch), and if both players in one team land on the Star Space, each player can buy one Star from her, or two per player during the homestretch. Toadette will then move to another location when a Star is bought. On the upper left area on the lower floor of the board, there is a locked door. This door can be opened by obtaining the Door Key located on the upper floor of the board, in the upper right corner. This key cannot be discarded once picked up. A Thwomp on each floor will guard one halve of a floor, and coins can be paid to them in the same manner as in Mario Party in order to pass them. The Thwomps have their each separate toll count.