Koopa Paratroopas (also known as Para-Koopas, Sky Troopas in the original Super Mario RPG: Legend of the Seven Stars, Koopa Flying Troopers, or commonly simply Paratroopas) are enemies introduced in Super Mario Bros. They are Koopa Troopas with a pair of wings. Koopa Paratroopa commonly appear in two varieties: Red Koopa Paratroopas usually fly up and down in a set path, while Green Koopa Paratroopas often bounce in the player's general direction or fly back and forth. Koopa Paratroopas lose their wings if stomped, turning them into regular Koopa Troopas. Koopa Paratroopas are playable in various spin-off games, most of them wearing a red shell. Their name is a corruption of "paratrooper", a term used in the military to describe soldiers who parachute down to attack.

Koopa Paratroopas appear in Super Mario Bros. They are depicted in green and red varieties, the former appearing teal in underground and castle levels. Red Koopa Paratroopas that always move vertically are first encountered in World 1-3, while the green type is first encountered in World 2-1. These ones either bounce around or fly in a horizontal direction.

Koopa Paratroopas return in Super Mario Bros.: The Lost Levels. They are depicted in the same varieties as before. Green Koopa Paratroopas are first encountered in World 1-1, while the red type debuts in World 1-3. Koopa Paratroopas are encountered in some of the underwater levels, with the green type appearing gray in the Family Computer Disk System release due to the hardware palette. Koopa Paratroopas are also in levels where jumping from them is required to make it across pits. All green Koopa Paratroopas hop, except for those encountered in World 7-3.

Koopa Paratroopas return in Super Mario Bros. 3. They are depicted in green and red varieties. Koopa Paratroopas are first encountered in World 1-1. They are have little difference from before. The game adds large variants, Colossal Koopa Paratroopas, and the P-Wing, a wing of a Koopa Paratroopa that fills the Power Meter for one level.

Koopa Paratroopas, also named Winged Koopa Troopas or Flying Koopa Troopas, return in Super Mario World and its reissue. They are depicted with the same two varieties plus a yellow variety, though there is no blue type corresponding to the blue Koopa Troopas; every Koopa Paratroopa is upright instead of quadrupedal, like Koopa Troopas. Koopa Paratroopas all wear Mario masks during Fall, like with Koopa Troopas. Koopa Paratroopas are first encountered in Yoshi's Island 3. Green Koopa Paratroopas either jump in a horizontal direction, at varying heights, or fly in a direction. Red-shelled Koopa Paratroopas have a few more actions, sometimes now flying in a programmed left to right pattern or continuously in either direction. Yellow Koopa Paratroopas walk like Koopa Troopas while jumping over shells in front and chasing the player character. Jumping on them gets rid of their wings and turn them into regular yellow-shelled Koopas. Any Koopa Paratroopa is defeated instantly if stomped by Yoshi.

Koopa Paratroopas return in New Super Mario Bros. They appear in green and red varieties. Koopa Paratroopas are first encountered in World 1-4. Both types can bounce towards players and fly. Koopa Paratroopas are unresponsive to bah sounds.

Koopa Paratroopas return in New Super Mario Bros. Wii. They appear in green and red varieties. Koopa Paratroopas are first encountered in World 1-4. They can sometimes appear in the boss fight against Magikoopa hitting platform units with his magic. Koopa Paratroopas are responsive to the background music, like before. Besides player characters, Koopa Paratroopa also loses its wings if stomped by Yoshi, unlike Super Mario World. A Koopa Paratroopa is defeated from a Ground Pound instantly.

Paratroopas return in New Super Mario Bros. 2. They appear in green and red varieties. Paratroopas are first encountered in World 1-3. Green Paratroopas have the ability to move in circles.

Paratroopas return in New Super Mario Bros. U, New Super Luigi U, and their port. They appear in green and red varieties. Paratroopas are first encountered in Stone-Eye Zone of New Super Mario Bros. U and Dancing Blocks, Poison Swamp of New Super Luigi U. Paratroopas behave no differently than before.

Paratroopas do not appear in Super Mario 3D World nor Super Mario 3D World + Bowser's Fury, though a skeletal variety, Parabones, was added.

Koopa Paratroopas are course elements in Super Mario Maker, its port, and Super Mario Maker 2. They appear in green and red varieties. Koopa Paratroopas are created by combining a Koopa Troopa with a pair of wings. Green Paratroopas leap endlessly in a zig-zag pattern, and the red type behaves like it did in Super Mario Bros. Koopa Paratroopas become Big Koopa Paratroopas if given a Super Mushroom. Koopa Paratroopas in Super Mario Maker 2 can have a parachute applied to them and are missing from the Super Mario 3D World style.

Koopa Paratroopas are enemies in Super Mario Run. They fly in either fixed horizontal or vertical directions. They only appear with red shells in this game. Stomping one one kicks the shell immediately, instead of only removing the wings and leaving it a Red Koopa Troopa as in other games. They first appear in Paratroopas in Mushroom Valley.

Paratroopas appear in Super Mario Bros.: Peach-hime Kyūshutsu Dai Sakusen!. Several of them fly out of a television screen while Mario plays the Family Computer. A colossal-sized Paratroopa also appears.

Koopa Paratroopas only appear in the episodes "King Mario of Cramalot" and "Princess, I Shrunk the Mario Brothers" of The Super Mario Bros. Super Show! In "King Mario of Cramalot," they drop a net on top of Mario, Luigi, Toad, Princess Toadstool and Mervin. The Koopa Paratroopas are based off the show's Koopa Troopa design, except that they are depicted in shades of red while having wings similar to a bee's, rather than their usual feathered ones. Much like the Koopa Troopas that appeared in that same episode, the Koopa Paratroopas are dressed up as knights to fit the medieval setting of Cramalot. In "Princess, I Shrunk the Mario Brothers," when the Koopa Troopas are shrunk, one that is jumping is a Koopa Paratroopa. 
Additionally, in "Flatbush Koopa," after falling off a roller coaster and into Lower New York Bay, a Koopa Troopa mutters that he wishes that he had joined the Paratroopas, claiming that they have received parachutes.

Koopa Paratroopas are background characters in the episode "Do the Koopa" of The Adventures of Super Mario Bros. 3. They resemble their in-game design more closely than in the previous show. The Koopa Paratroopas dance in the Doomship's cargo hold.

Koopa Paratroopas are summoned with Monty Moles by Iggy in Super Mario World: Mario to Yoshi no Bōken Land. They are defeated from Yoshi's Fire Breath.

A Koopa Paratroopa is a minor character in the story "Marios Rückkehr" of Club Nintendo. It turns Raccoon Mario into regular Mario after crashing into him.

Koopa Paratroopas are enemies in Koopa Capers. Some of them can be fought by Luigi while ascending stairs leading to Wendy's secret camp.

Koopa Paratroopas are antagonists in Super Mario Adventures. They appear in red and green varieties. Koopa Paratroopas appear during the onslaught at the start. Some Koopa Paratroopas (incorrectly identified by Luigi as Mecha-Koopas) are sent out by King Koopa to attack the Mario Bros. The Paratroopas are fought off by Mario while Yoshi eats them.

Koopa Para Troopas) are enemies in Yoshi's Safari. They appear in four aesthetic varieties: green, yellow, blue, and pink. There is a discrepancy on the box art, where they are depicted as barefooted, but have shoes in-game. Koopa Para Troopas hover up and down slightly while approaching the screen. They are defeated from a single shot from the Super Scope.

Flying Koopas are enemies in Hotel Mario. Flying Koopas are depicted in only the green variety. They are first encountered in Lemmy's High-ate Regency Hotel. They travel in a diagonal motion. The game adds a stronger variant named Z Koopas.

Para-Koopas. are enemies in Super Mario World 2: Yoshi's Island and its reissue. They are first encountered in Visit Koopa And Para-Koopa, along with Koopa Troopas, and both are common enemies. Para-Koopas appear in their green and red varieties. They can be inserted into a Yoshi's mouth, in which case they lose their wings and become Koopas, but not eaten. Green Para-Koopas hop and the red type travels back and forth.

Para-Koopas return in Yoshi's Island DS. Both the green and red varieties return, and they were given a larger body and a much lighter outline. Para-Koopas are first encountered in Rock 'n' Fall, and are part of the Ground Exhibit of the Island Museum.

Koopa Paratroopas return in Yoshi's New Island. They are first encountered in Koopa Canyon. Koopa Paratroopas are no different than before.

Paratroopas, named Sky Troopas in the original, are enemies in Super Mario RPG: Legend of the Seven Stars and its remake. They are encountered in Mushroom Way, Bandit's Way, and Booster Pass. Paratroopas are all depicted wearing red shells. They do not lose their wings when hit. Pararoopas attack by ramming their opponent while hiding in their shell.
In Mushroom Way, some Paratroopas guard treasure boxes while others actively pursue Mario. One Paratroopa even kidnaps Toad. In battle, Paratroopas either fight alone or in pairs. At Mushroom Way and in Booster Pass, Paratroopas also aid Spikeys in battle if the Spikeys are attacked. Four Paratroopas can be fought in Bandit's Way while Mario chases Croco through the last area of the level. They fly high in the sky and do not actively pursue Mario, therefore he has to jump if he wants to fight them. After Croco is defeated, these Paratroopas disappear and do not return for the rest of the game.
One prominent Paratroopa featured in the game is Sergeant Flutter, a reformed Koopa who leads a large squad of friendly Paratroopas. These Paratroopas help out Mario in his quest for the Star Pieces at the behest of Monstermama, the leader of Monstro Town. These Paratroopas assist Mario in ascending the steep cliff located at the end of Land's End, allowing him to reach Bean Valley and eventually Nimbus Land. Mario accomplishes this by jumping from Paratroopa to Paratroopa, each Paratroopa carrying Mario higher into the air and closer to the next Paratroopa. If Mario scales the cliff quickly by bypassing the normal sequence of Paratroopa hops, he is rewarded with prizes.
The Paratroopa has a bulky relative called a Big Troopa, which in turn are related to the Grand Troopas. Paratroopas also have stronger relatives called Malakoopas. These Paratroopas have a green shell instead of a red shell. Standard Koopa Troopas are absent from the game.
The original localized name of the Paratroopas was reused in the Nintendo Switch version as a wrong answer to one of Dr. Topper's quiz questions.

Koopa Paratroopas are enemies in some of the Modern versions of Game & Watch games in Game & Watch Gallery 2 and background elements of the Modern version of Fire in Game & Watch Gallery 4. A Para Troopa in Helmet throws obstacles in the first area, including Spiked Balls, Podoboos, and hammers. Para Troopas are amongst the enemies to defend the Yoshi Eggs from in Vermin. Para Troopas appear in the Modern Donkey Kong in both Game & Watch Gallery titles.

Paratroopas mostly have minor roles in the Mario Golf series. Paratroopa's name occasionally appears on the score card in Mario Golf. A red Paratroopa waves the O.B. flag in Mario Golf: Toadstool Tour. Koopa Paratroopas are non-playable characters in the Golf Adventure mode of Mario Golf: Super Rush, being encountered in Bonny Greens and Ridgerock Lake.
A Paratroopa is an unlockable playable character in Mario Golf: World Tour. It has a straight trajectory at 207 yards. Paratroopa has higher control and sweet spot stats, and it hits the ball at the middle height. Paratroopa has a slightly higher drive than Peach. Paratroopa is unlocked by collecting 50 Star Coins in Challenge Mode. A green Paratroopa is one of the enemies hit by Mario and Gold Mario during their animation from earning an eagle or a higher rating.

Paratroopa is first seen in the intro of Mario Tennis, losing a tournament match to Luigi. Paratroopa is depicted wearing a red shell. Paratroopa is a playable character. It is billed a Tricky character, having a high spin and curve to its shots whilst having a low reach. This is the first game with a playable Paratroopa.

Paratroopa is an unlockable playable character in Mario Power Tennis. It is depicted wearing a red shell. Paratroopa is billed a technique player. Paratroopa has the longest lunge whilst still having the lowest reach. Its Offensive Power Shot is Energy Ball, which conjures a tornado to spin out the opponents, and its Defensive Power Shot is Sky Dive, where Paratroopa dives to the ball. Paratroopa is unlocked after clearing every World Open cup in Doubles. Paratroopa appears in the singles tournament ceremony, attempting to retrieve a trophy from Waluigi, but his shell is attached to a fishing pole by Wario. Paratroopa inadvertently rams into Waluigi, after Toad had cut the fishing line, and catches the trophy. Paratroopa appears in a blooper reel, wandering on the scene accidentally and being stared at by Wario, Waluigi, and Bowser before the three of them laugh.

Koopa Paratroopas are audience members in the base game of Mario Tennis Aces and a playable character since the version 2.0.0 update. Prior to being announced, Koopa Paratroopa's emblem had been seen on a bag available as a preorder bonus in Japan. The playable Paratroopa wears a red shell like before. It was originally unlockable from completing the November 2018 online tournament but became available later when the tournament ended. Koopa Paratroopa is billed as a Technical character. He has a strong curve on his slice moves. Koopa Paratroopa has a sideways Trick Shot named Koopa Boost, which resembling his lunge from Mario Power Tennis, and a forward Trick Shot named Roll Call. Paratroopa's Special Shot is the Spiral Special, in which he and two other Paratroopas generate a tornado while flying about. Blue and green palette swaps of Koopa Paratroopa were added in the version 3.1.0 update. A red and a green Koopa Paratroopa appears in the Special Shot and intro scene of the blue variety.

Paratroopas are enemies in Paper Mario. They wear distinct sunglasses to differentiate from the friendly Koopas. Every Paratroopa wears a red shell. They are encountered at Pleasant Path. Paratroopas attack using a Shell Shot, including as a First Strike on the field. Paratroopas are unaffected by Hammer attacks in battle whilst beign weak to Jump attacks, causing them to lose their wings and become normal Koopa Troopas. A Paratroopa mail carrier named Parakarry is one of Mario's partners. Dark Paratroopa, a variant of the Dark Koopa, is an unused enemy.

Koopa Paratroopas return in Paper Mario: The Thousand-Year Door. They retain their look from the previous game. Koopa Paratroopas are first encountered in Hooktail Castle. The game adds three varieties: KP Paratroopa, Shady Paratroopa, and Dark Paratroopa, the latter originally being unused in the previous game. All Koopa Paratroopa varieties attack identically to the regular type. Parakarry makes a cameo.

Koopa Paratroopas return in Super Paper Mario. They appear in green and red varieties, like the platforming games, while retaining their sunglasses. Paratroopas are encountered in Chapter 1-2, 2-1, 3-3, and Rooms 11 and 46 of the Flipside Pit of 100 Trials. The green type hops around while the red type flies in predetermined horizontal and vertical lines.

Koopa Paratroopas are enemies in Paper Mario: Sticker Star. They are red and do not wear sunglasse, unlike before. They are encountered in World 2. A Koopa Paratroopa inflict the Dizzy status from its Shell Shot attack. A Koopa Paratroopa loses its wings if hit by a First Strike or jump type sticker, turning it into a Koopa Troopa. A Paratroopa Squad is encountered at the end of Yoshi Sphinx, and their dialogue has them say "over" similarly to fighter pilots. They have four times as much HP. The game adds the Shiny Paratroopa variety.

Koopa Paratroopas are enemies in Paper Mario: Color Splash. Only the red variety of Koopa Paratroopas appear. They are encountered in Daffodil Peak, The Crimson Tower, Sunset Express, and as the second-round opponent in Roshambo Temple #4. Koopa Paratroopas attack by either flying at Mario while inside their shells or diving onto him from above, countered only with a Spike Helmet. A Koopa Paratroopa loses its wings when attacked and becomes a Koopa Troopa. Paratroopas only use their Shell Shot attack as an Enemy Card ally, hitting a row of either aerial or grounded enemies at 25 damage each. Paratroopa allies dodges most enemy attacks, but not jump attacks. A Paratroopa, referred to as a "red bird," is a pet owned by a Tea Party Toad, and one part involves returning it to its cage. The game adds Koopa Paratroopa 10-Stacks.

Origami Koopa Paratroopas are enemies in Paper Mario: The Origami King. They are first encountered in the Fire Vellumental Cave. The original Koopa Paratroopas are fought similarly as before, being weak to jump attacks whilst dodging hammer attacks. Regular Koopa Paratroopas are supporting characters, also helping to combat the Paper Planes while on an airship en route to Peach's Castle.

Paratroopas are background characters in Mario Kart: Super Circuit. Two are seen in the awards ceremony.

A red Paratroopa is a playable racer in Mario Kart: Double Dash!!. It is billed a lightweight racer. Paratroopa is partnered with a Koopa Troopa by default, and both have Triple Red Shells and Triple Green Shells as their special item. Paratroopa's personal kart is the Para-Wing.

Paratroopa is depicted on the "Turn Right" billboard in the returning Wii Koopa Cape in Mario Kart 7.

Paratroopas are spectators in Cloudtop Cruise, GCN Dry Dry Desert, 3DS Piranha Plant Slide, and 3DS Neo Bowser City in Mario Kart 8 and Mario Kart 8 Deluxe, as well as in N64 Choco Mountain, GBA Sky Garden, DS Waluigi Pinball, Wii Mushroom Gorge, Sky-High Sundae, GBA Riverside Park, Yoshi's Island, Tour Bangkok Rush, and Tour Singapore Speedway in the latter's Booster Course Pass. They are depicted in green, red, and blue varieties. They are also referenced in Paratroopa Airlines.

In the Super Smash Bros. series, Paratroopas mainly appear as enemies in the single-player campaigns. In Super Smash Bros. Melee, one red Paratroopa and a few green Paratroopas appear in the first stage of the Adventure Mode, Mushroom Kingdom. When a character jumps on a Koopa Paratroopa, it loses its wings and falls to the ground. The player can defeat a Paratroopa without destroying its wings by simply grabbing it, carrying it, and throwing it or if the character uses a special move such as Kirby's swallow. If the red Paratroopa's shell is thrown, fire can be seen on it, but this does not affect gameplay. In Super Smash Bros. Brawl, Paratroopas are enemies in The Subspace Emissary, and they were given an attack of headbutting fighters who approach them. The red Paratroopas either follow players or fly vertically, while the green ones hop or fly in patterns. Jumping on them removes their wings and turn them into regular Koopa Troopas, just like in the Super Mario series. In Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS, Koopa Paratroopas are enemies in Smash Run, where behave similarly as in Super Smash Bros. Brawl. There are both red and green variants, with the green hopping up and down toward the player and the red flying up and down or side to side. If the player gets close enough, the Paratroopa attempts to headbutt the player. Jumping on them removes their wings and turn them into simple Koopa Troopas.
Throughout the series, there have also been various collectible items of Koopa Paratroopas. In Super Smash Bros. Melee, there is a trophy of a red Paratroopa. In Super Smash Bros. Brawl, there is a trophy of the green and red types that can only be obtained by using a Trophy Stand on the respective type. Similarly, Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS also has a trophy for a green and a red Paratroopa each, though in Super Smash Bros. for Wii U, only the red Paratroopa trophy appears.

Paratroopas are obstacles in the minigame Paratrooper Plunge in Mario Party 4.

Paratroopas are background characters in the minigames Merry Poppings and Wind Wavers and part of the item Paratroopa Capsule in Mario Party 5. Paratroopa appears from using its item and takes away a number of coins from the opponent determined by a dice block roll of the user.

Paratroopas are non-playable characters in the minigames What Goes Up..., where red ones are used to climb a high altitude, and Odd Card Out, as one of the possible cards, in Mario Party 6. Paratroopa is also a character part of the Koopa Troopa Orb, now using military jargon and switching the player character with whoever placed the trap.

Paratroopa is a non-playable character in Mario Party Advance. He owns the Junk store in Shroon City, and is the cousin of Koopa. He looks after the citizens of Shroom City. Paratroopa does not open Junk if no quest is active, though claims it will open soon. Paratroopa does not initiate any quest but he appears in a few. Paratroopa has a role during Find the Password, where he can be asked about the Bob-omb figure, revealing the password of the Bob-omb club he is part of, or a Toad Force V figure, which he says is out of stock because of how popular the show is. Paratroopa is one of the suspects of robbing the Koopa Bank in the quest Probably a Robbery?. He can either be asked about the robbery, revealing that he saw the shine of the stolen coins, or his store, claiming things are running well. Paratroopa is later proven to have provided false witness, despite being Koopa's cousin, since not even the coins could be seen in the total darkness. Paratroopa confesses to the crime, claiming it was joke. Paratroopa is not arrested at Koopa's request, and Paratroopa returns the coins before returning to Junk. The only role of Paratroopa in Accessorize! is selling either a ring, a necklace, or a bracelet to the player to the player as a gift to Bowser, having been informed beforehand.

Paratroopas are background characters in the Test for the Best mode in Mario Party 8. A green and a red Paratroopa hold the 2000-point and 3000-point signs, respectively.

Paratroopas are non-playable characters in the background of the Hot-Air Hijinks mode, minigames such as Sky'd and Seek, and a red one appears on the Star-Crossed Skyway board in Mario Party: Island Tour. The Paratroopa at Star-Crossed Skyway gives seven Mini Stars at the first, second, and last Star Stages.

A Koopa Paratroopa is a background character in the returning minigame Leaf Leap in Mario Party: The Top 100.

Koopa Paratroopas are non-playable characters in Super Mario Party. They are encountered in every board in Mario Party Mode. A Paratroopa takes a player character to an opponent's spot for five coins, or seven coins later on 5 coins. A Paratroopa takes a photo of the player characters before a waterfall in the River Survival mode. A Koopa Paratroopa is also encountered in the main plaza.

Koopa Paratroopas are absent in Mario & Luigi: Superstar Saga, but have a very similar, beanish relative called Paratroopeas, who attack similarly to Paratroopas, but with the added ability to heal. Like Koopa Paratroopas, they lose their wings once they take enough damage and they become Troopeas. A stronger version of them exists are called Scaratroopeas, who attack in a faster manner and have the ability to even revive KO'd opponents.

Koopa Paratroopas appear in Mario & Luigi: Superstar Saga + Bowser's Minions after being absent in the original game. They appear as enemies and recruitable allies exclusively in Minion Quest: The Search for Bowser. They are Flying troopers, and their Special Skill is Cranium Crush. There are green and red variants, with the red ones having an advantage against spear-wielding enemies.

Though Koopa Paratroopas do not appear in Mario & Luigi: Partners in Time, they are mentioned by a Toad in Peach's Castle about how he wished to have wings of a Paratroopa or Lakitu's Cloud to fly in a remote Time Hole. They are also referenced in the description for Paraslacks, a clothing that increases an adult Mario brother's speed and defense. Handfakes can also hold signs that resemble Koopa Paratroopas.

A group of blue-shelled Koopa Paratroopas known as the Koopa Paratroopa Trio appears in Mario & Luigi: Bowser's Inside Story. In this game, they teach the Mario Bros. the blue shell technique. Their appearance is similar to the Paper Mario series since they also wear the sunglasses. Another kind of Paratroopa appear in Bowser's Castle. Their shells are red and they do not wear glasses. Corporal Paraplonk is a red-shelled Paratroopa who wears green shoes and a red bucket on his head, and he serves as one Bowser's lackeys, alongside Private Goomp and Sergeant Guy, all whom are members of the Elite Trio. Green and red Koopa Paratroopas also appear in the remake reprising both their original roles and new roles as allies and enemies in the Bowser Jr.'s Journey mode, with the Koopa Paratroopa Trio appearing as a new minion.

Paratroopas make several small appearances in Mario & Luigi: Dream Team. During the battle against the Elite Trio in Dreamy Driftwood Shore, a pair of Paratroopas appear with a purple block each during Corporal Paraplonk's attack, placing a block in line with Mario, to both sides of him. In Dreamy Neo Bowser Castle (Bowser's Dream), two green Paratroopas appear as Bowser is demanding for meat to grow bigger. In Neo Bowser Castle, after Bowser betrays Antasma and takes the Dream Stone for his own, a Paratroopa is seen carrying Princess Peach. In the final battle, Dreamy Bowser creates golden, otherworldly Dreamy Paratroopas to send after Mario and Luigi. With the exception of Corporal Paraplonk, no other red-shelled Paratroopas appear in the game.

Although normal Koopa Paratroopas do not appear in Mario & Luigi: Paper Jam, their paper versions do.

Koopa Paratroopas make small appearances in several of 9-Volt's classic Nintendo-themed microgames in the WarioWare series. The first time they have appeared in is WarioWare: Touched!, in the Stomp! version of the microgame Super Mario Bros. Here, players need to tap a Koopa Paratroopa to turn it into a Koopa Troopa, then tap it again to put it in its shell, then tap once more to send its shell careening. A Koopa Paratroopa is featured in a microgame in WarioWare: D.I.Y., called Paratroopa. Here, players, as Mario, need to avoid the bouncing green Paratroopa by moving left or right.

Paratroopa is a playable character in Mario Superstar Baseball. It can be played in red or green varieties, both differing in stats slightly. Paratroopa is billed a Technique player. Its ability is Super Jump. Both the green and red Paratroopas are members of Donkey Kong's team in Challenge mode, where their Superstar Challenges include smacking a hit; catching the ball using a Super Jump, and pitching as Paratroopa a whole game and winning. The Koopa Paratroopas have good chemistry with Koopa Troopa, Paragoomba, and Bowser. Koopa Paratroopa has averange range when tackling the ball.

Paratroopa returns in Mario Super Sluggers. It retains the red and green varieties. Paratroopa is billed an all-around. Both Paratroopas are part of the Wario Muscles in Challenge mode. They are unaffected by a POW-Ball or while giant in Graffiti Runner. Paratroopas are slower than before Red Paratroopa has improved fielding, batting, and pitching skills, and the Green Koopa Paratroopa has increased batting but lower pitching.

Koopa Paratroopas are enemies in Super Princess Peach. Their look is based on their appearance in the Yoshi's Island series, and they appear in green and red varieties. The game introduces two varieties, including Mad G. P-Troopa and G. R. P-Troopa, infused with Rage and Joy, respectively.

Paratroopa is an unlockable playable character in Mario Hoops 3-on-3. It is billed a Tricky player. Its special ability is the Wing Shot. Paratroopa can be unlocked by winning a bronze trophy or higher in Mushroom Tourney.

Koopa Paratroopas make a few appearances in the Mario & Sonic series. Four green Paratroopas appear at the start of Mario's Figure Skating Spectacular in Mario & Sonic at the Sochi 2014 Olympic Winter Games, helping Kamek capture the Toads. A red Koopa Paratroopa appears in the Golf Plus event of the Nintendo 3DS version of Mario & Sonic at the Rio 2016 Olympic Games, moving the flag and the hole after each shot.

Koopa Partroopas appear in green, red, and yellow varieties in Puzzle & Dragons: Super Mario Bros. Edition.

Green Koopa Paratroopas are Water-attribute enemies. In battle, in addition to attacking normally, they may occasionally use Winged Green Shell to nullify Fire and Dark attribute damage for two turns. When defeated, it may randomly drop a Water Block of a Green Koopa Troopa or a P-Wing, while defeating it with a 10+ Combo attack guarantees that it drops a Fruit. As Water enemies, they take extra damage from Wood attribute attacks and less from Fire damage. 
As teammates, Green Koopa Paratroopas gain a Light sub-attribute (being Water/Light teammates), and have an HP rating of 4/6, an ATK rating of 1/6, and a RCV rating of 2/6. Their Winged Green Shell Skill recovers 500 HP for the player's team and changes any Wood Orbs on the player's Orb field into Water Orbs, while their Awoken Skill Water Boost raises the ATK of any Water attribute teammates when the player clears a horizontal row of Water Orbs. Green Koopa Paratroopas use Fruits and Rare Fruits to raise their Skill Levels. The player can create a Green Koopa Paratroopa by transforming a Green Koopa Troopa with two P-Wings, and can be transformed into a Big Green Koopa Paratroopa using five Super Mushrooms.

Red Koopa Paratroopas are Fire-attribute enemies. In battle, they may occasionally use Winged Red Shell to nullify Wood and Light attribute damage for two turns. When defeated, it may randomly drop a Fire Block of a Red Koopa Troopa or a P-Wing, while defeating it with a 10+ Combo attack guarantees that it drops a Fruit. As Fire enemies, they take extra damage from Water attribute attacks and less from Wood damage. 
As teammates, Red Koopa Paratroopas gain a Light sub-attribute (being Fire/Light teammates), and have an HP rating of 4/6, an ATK rating of 2/6, and a RCV rating of 1/6. Their Winged Red Shell Skill recovers 500 HP for the player's team and changes any Water Orbs on the player's Orb field into Fire Orbs, while their Awoken Skill Fire Boost raises the ATK of any Fire attribute teammates when the player clears a horizontal row of Fire Orbs. Like Green Koopa Paratroopas, Red variants also use Fruits and Rare Fruits to raise their Skill Levels. The player can create a Red Koopa Paratroopa by transforming a Red Koopa Troopa with two P-Wings, and can be transformed into a Dry Bones using six Boo Mushrooms.
One of Lemmy's forms as a teammate has a Red Koopa Paratroopa accompanying him, and is named Lemmy & Red Koopa Paratroopa. 

Yellow Koopa Paratroopas are Light-attribute enemies. In battle, they may occasionally use Winged Yellow Shell to nullify Dark attribute damage for two turns. When defeated, it may randomly drop a Light Block of a Yellow Koopa Troopa or a P-Wing, while defeating it with a 10+ Combo attack guarantees that it drops a Fruit. As Light enemies, they take extra damage from Dark attribute attacks and normal damage from any other attribute. 
As teammates, Yellow Koopa Paratroopas gain a Light sub-attribute (being Light/Light teammates), and have an HP rating of 4/6, an ATK rating of 2/6, and a RCV rating of 2/6. Their Winged Yellow Shell Skill recovers 500 HP for the player's team and changes any Fire Orbs on the player's Orb field into Light Orbs, while their Awoken Skill Light Boost raises the ATK of any Light attribute teammates when the player clears a horizontal row of Light Orbs. Like Green and Red Koopa Paratroopas, Yellow variants also use Fruits and Rare Fruits to raise their Skill Levels. The player can create a Yellow Koopa Paratroopa by transforming a Yellow Koopa Troopa with two P-Wings, and can be transformed into a Big Yellow Koopa Paratroopa using five Super Mushrooms.
One of Ludwig von Koopa's forms as a teammate has a Yellow Koopa Paratroopa accompanying him, and is named Ludwig & Yellow Koopa Paratroopa.

Koopa Paratroopas reappear in Yoshi's Woolly World and its port Poochy & Yoshi's Woolly World. Due to the game depicting the characters, locations, items as being made of yarn, hence the title, their wings become outlines of yarn, and the beige part of their shells is replaced with a white button. When they are hit by a yarn ball, they become Koopa Troopas just as in previous games; they first appear in Knot-Wing the Koopa's Fort. Knot-Wing the Koopa is a boss which appears several times throughout Yoshi's Woolly World. Knot-Wing has the appearance of a large Koopa Paratroopa—however, he has the ability to regain his wings after losing them.

Koopa Paratroopas appear in the Nintendo versions of Skylanders: SuperChargers as part of Bowser's moveset.

In the Super Mario Mash-up for Minecraft, Koopa Paratroopas replace Vexes as enemies; because of this, Paratroopas are a lot smaller than in other appearances.

Paratroopas are selectable sidekicks in the baseball mode of Mario Sports Superstars. They are depicted in separately selectable red, green, blue, and yellow varieties. Their stats differ only in pitching velocity, speed, and stamina, mostly the latter. Paratroopas are billed Technique players, helping them control the ball while batting. Each Paratroopa color has three pitching options of their own. A green Paratroopa is depicted on the collectible digital card. A Paratroopa retains its depiction and role in Mario and Metal Mario's animation from scoring an eagle or higher in golf.

Koopa Paratroopa makes a cameo in Mario + Rabbids Kingdom Battle. A sprite of it from Super Mario Bros. is displayed on the wallpaper in the laboratory in the introductory cutscene. Paratroopa is also the basis of the design of the Annihilation from Above weapon.

Koopa Paratroopas are assistants in Dr. Mario World. In stage mode, their effect is to increase the obtained score for each red virus eliminated, where the base score increase is greater at higher levels. In versus mode, the effect is to instead clear the bottom-most row of objects if an object has reached the penultimate row from the bottom line; this effect activates only once per round. The chance that the effect activates is greater at higher levels, where it is guaranteed to activate at the maximum level. In Clinic Events, a Koopa Paratroopa was featured as a patient during season 8.

Koopa Paratroopas are troops of Bowser's army in The Super Mario Bros. Movie. A blue-colored, spiny-shelled Paratroopa, known as the Koopa General, is featured as the captain of the Koopa Troop.

Originally in Super Mario Kart, if the player ranked 3rd place in a Mario Kart GP, four red Koopa Paratroopas would appear flying above the racers. When the winner in 1st place opened the bottle of champagne, the last Paratroopa would be shot down by the cork and angrily bounce away.

Paratroopa was originally going to reappear in Mario Kart Wii as a playable racer, as there is an image of it for the game's character select screen, along with Petey Piranha and Hammer Bro. Koopa Troopa's model additionally has an unused wing model, alongside having unused wing textures, indicating that it was originally to share its model with Paratroopa. However, both the character and the wing model were removed from the game for unknown reasons. Despite this, artwork of one appears on the "Turn Right" billboard in Koopa Cape.

Koopa Paratroopas have an identical appearance to their parent species, the Koopa Troopa. They are designed after tortoises, and were originally designed being a quadruped until Super Mario World, although various artwork of Paratroopas have anthropomorphized quadruped Paratroopas. In Super Mario World, they have been given shoes to designate their current bipedal appearance, just as regular Koopa Troopas have gotten. Most artwork of Paratroopas have colored their shells red to further distinguish from regular Koopa Troopa, though multiple artwork of green-shelled Paratroopas exist. All playable appearances of a Koopa Paratroopa have been red-shelled, with some exceptions including the Mario Baseball games giving players the choice to choose different colors for the Paratroopa, although the red Paratroopa is the default color regardless.
The most distinguishing feature of Paratroopas are their wings, which enable them to fly. These wings are not firmly attached to the Paratroopa's shells, with usually a single stomp getting rid of their wings and turning them into normal Koopa Troopas; this is further enhanced by the ability of simply adding wings to multiple objects in Super Mario Maker, Koopa Troopas included and the existence of the P-Wing. The shell-color of the Paratroopa is additionally used to separate behavioral differences: green-shelled Paratroopas typically bounce around or fly left and right while red-shelled Paratroopas fly up and down; many exceptions are made to this rule, however. The Paratroopa's wing length differs from game to game, with Paratroopas in Super Mario World 2: Yoshi's Island, Paper Mario, Yoshi's Island DS, and Super Princess Peach having very long wings, though the normal length for most games of the wings is rather short.
In games where Paratroopas have a voice, Paratroopas mostly borrow their voice clips from Koopa Troopa's electronic ones. Initially, Paratroopa sounds identically to Koopa Troopa beginning with Mario Tennis for the Nintendo 64; Mario Kart: Double Dash!! is the first game to increase the pitch of its voice clips to distinguish from Koopa Troopa and has been the norm for Paratroopa ever since, with a few exceptions.

Bios often mention the ability of Koopa Paratroopas to fly and to lose its wings to turn into Koopa Troopas once they are stomped on. In various Super Mario RPGs barring Super Mario RPG: Legend of the Seven Stars, Koopa Paratroopas feature very similar stats to Koopa Troopas, having high defense due to the protection of their shells and they can avoid grounded attacks thanks to their flying nature. However, their wings can usually be removed by the means of jumping on them, which turns them into ordinary Koopa Troopas. In the sports spin-offs that feature a playable Koopa Paratroopa, the playable Paratroopas are usually classified as technical or trickier characters, having a focus on outplaying and managing their opponents differently than relying on pure power or speed stats. Aside from that, they are usually very balanced, having no huge strengths or weaknesses.