Koopa Troopas (commonly shortened to Koopas or sometimes Troopas) are anthropomorphic turtles with removable shells that come in many different colors, with green and red Koopa Troopas being the most common; green Koopa Troopas usually walk in a straight line until they hit a wall or fall into a bottomless pit, while red Koopa Troopas walk back and forth without walking off of the platforms they are on. Koopa Troopas are the most common members of the  Koopa species. Most serve as foot soldiers belonging to Bowser's Minions, being the second most common enemy encountered by Mario behind the Goombas. As revealed in Super Mario 64, however, not all Koopa Troopas work for Bowser (or any other villain), some of whom even act as allies to Mario during his adventures, and have appeared as playable characters in various spin-off games starting with Super Mario Kart. They are notable for the many uses of their shells in the Super Mario franchise.

An enemy that first appeared in Mario Bros., the Shellcreeper, was the "ancestor" of the Koopa Troopa. When creating Super Mario Bros., a few changes were made to the enemies, including the ability to jump on them in order to damage them.
The Koopa Troopa's Japanese name,「ノコノコ」(Nokonoko), is a Japanese term meaning "to walk unconcernedly", describing the green-shelled Koopa Troopas'  behavior. The English name comes from Bowser's Japanese name,「クッパ」(Kuppa), which is itself derived from the Korean dish of the same name, while "Troopa" is a corruption of  "trooper", seemingly to keep the reference to forward marching from the Japanese name intact.

In the game Mario Bros., there are enemies called Shellcreepers, which bear a huge similarity to Koopa Troopas, but cannot be jumped on. Shellcreepers come in three different colors to indicate their speed: green is the slowest, red is slightly faster, and purple is the fastest. They can be defeated by hitting the POW Block when they are on the ground to flip them over, then jumping on them. This results in a coin coming out of a pipe.
The Shellcreepers are replaced by Spinies in most remakes of Mario Bros. starting with the battle mode in Super Mario Bros. 3, likely so players know not to jump on them. In fact, the version of Mario Bros. known as the Battle Game in Super Mario All-Stars features a regular green Koopa Troopa alongside Spinies.

In Super Mario Bros., Koopa Troopas are the second enemy Mario encounters, directly after Goombas. They serve as foot-soldiers in the army Bowser uses to invade the Mushroom Kingdom. If jumped on, a Koopa Troopa recedes into shell, which can then be kicked to attack other enemies. If Super/Fire Mario gets hit by the shell, he reverts to Small form; Small Mario loses a life instead. If a Koopa Troopa's shell is left alone for too long, however, the Koopa reemerges (their legs flash rapidly as a warning). The game features two different types of Koopa Troopas: green, which walks in one direction until it is defeated or falls and appears darker in underground and castle levels; and red, which patrols a set area without walking off any edges. Sometimes, if a Koopa Troopa is either hit from below or is stomped while falling, the shell is flipped upside down (like with its death animation), although if left alone long enough, the Koopa will right itself back up. The game's instruction manual claims that red Koopa Troopas are timid and get scared easily as the reason for them not falling off cliffs. There is also a variation to the Koopa Troopa known as Koopa Paratroopas, which are flying Koopa Troopas. A Koopa Troopa is one of seven fake Bowsers that serve as the bosses of the castles in the first seven worlds, particularly in World 2's castle; its true identity will be revealed if it is defeated by fireballs.
In some levels, like at the end of World 3-1, Koopas can sometimes descend staircases, allowing the player to kick their shell repeatedly against the staircase in order to potentially obtain an unlimited number of lives (although reaching the maximum can potentially lead to an instant Game Over). This is prevented in VS. Super Mario Bros. by having the Koopas on staircases replaced with Goombas.

Koopa Troopas reappear in Super Mario Bros.: The Lost Levels working exactly the same way as in the previous game. However, they walk faster than before, making them harder enemies for Mario or Luigi to handle. They can now be found underwater, where they cannot be stomped. Unlike the ones on land, these Koopas have gray shells like the gray Cheep Cheeps that are normally found underwater (but are colored normally in the SNES remake; red Koopas, along with other red enemies, remain the same color regardless of whichever palette is used), suggesting that green/orange enemies are always colored gray/orange when using the underwater palette, as evidenced by the fact that gray Cheep Cheeps were recolored green in Super Mario All-Stars. In the Super Mario All-Stars version, the fake Bowser fought at the end of World A's castle is actually a red Koopa Troopa, though it is depicted as a right-side-up Koopa instead of an upside-down one.

Koopa Troopas do not appear in Super Mario Bros. 2 due to its role as a remake of the game Yume Kōjō: Doki Doki Panic. However, their shells do appear as items throughout the game, which can be used to hurl at enemies, like in the original Super Mario Bros. Unlike in Super Mario Bros., they do not hurt the player nor bounce off walls; this is changed in Super Mario Advance.

Koopa Troopas make a reappearance in Super Mario Bros. 3. They are once again common foot soldiers in Bowser's army, although their reach is much wider in this game, as Koopa Troopas appear in nearly every Land Mario and Luigi visit. From this game onward, the brothers can pick up a Koopa that had gone into its shell and then throw it at enemies. In all versions of the game, Koopa Troopas walk on all fours, except one Koopa in the NES version's ending sequence who appears to be praying to Statue Mario.
This game debuts two new sub-species of Koopa Troopas: Giant Koopas, which, like other giant versions of normal enemies in this game, can only be found on Giant Land, and Dry Bones, an undead version usually found in fortresses.
In the UK version of Bowser's letter revealing he had captured Princess Toadstool while the Mario Bros. were restoring the Mushroom Kings, he is erroneously identified as "Koopa Troopa."

While the common Koopa Troopas do not appear in Super Mario Land, a species known as the Bombshell Koopa do. Instead of being able to be kicked in their shell, their shell is a bomb.

Super Mario World marks many changes to Koopa Troopas. It is the first time Koopa Troopas are seen walking on two legs in-game and wearing shoes (which later became the regular look for them). In this game, when a Koopa is jumped on, it is actually knocked out of its shell, becoming an unshelled Koopa. Shortly after getting knocked out, it will become stunned and vulnerable for a short period of time. To reclaim its shell, a Koopa has to walk back to it before Mario grabs it. In this game, Koopa Troopas traveled with Bowser to Dinosaur Land in an attempt to take it over, though this plan is thwarted by the Mario brothers.
This is the first game to introduce Koopas and Paratroopas wearing Yellow Shells and Blue Shells. Also, if Yoshi eats certain color shells, then he will gain abilities: Green Shells do nothing and can only be spat out normally, Red Shells allow Yoshi to spit fire, Yellow Shells allow Yoshi to cause a small earthquake every time the player lands after a jump, which defeats any enemies who are on the ground nearby (an ability known as sand cloud), and Blue Shells allow Yoshi to fly for a short period of time.
The different color shells also point to the behavior of the Koopa Troopas. Blue-shelled Koopa Troopas act like red-shelled Koopa Troopas, but move faster. Additionally, when a blue-shelled Koopa loses its shell, instead of jumping into a new one, it will kick any shell in its path. It also does not get stunned when it loses its shell, as it slides out on its feet as opposed to its belly like other Koopa Troopas. Yellow-shelled Koopa Troopas are unique and tend to chase after Mario, but act like faster green-shelled Koopa Troopas in movement. When yellow-shelled Koopa Troopas lose their shell, a coin pops out. Also, when a yellow shell-less Koopa finds a new shell, it will turn into a flashing Shell and chase Mario. It will be invincible to most of Mario's moves while defeating enemies in its path; however, Yoshi can eat this shell and gain all three shell abilities for a limited time, and a spin jump will also destroy this shell. Magikoopas can create yellow-shelled Koopa Troopas out of Rotating Blocks.
The game also features a new variant called a Climbing Koopa, a Koopa Troopa that is capable of climbing on fences and found mainly in castle levels.
After the player completes the Special Zone, or finds all exits in Super Mario World: Super Mario Advance 2, all Koopa Troopas (except the climbing variants) become Mask Koopas, with their respective shells becoming round masks that vaguely resemble Mario. With this, Green and Red Koopas will be replaced with their Yellow and Blue counterparts respectively, although standalone unshelled Koopas and other Koopa Troopa species will keep their original colors.

Actual Koopa Troopas appear in Super Mario Land 2: 6 Golden Coins, and assist Wario in taking over Mario Land. These Koopa Troopas can be kicked at each other like as usual and they can right themselves after being jumped on. Koopa Troopas once again walk on all fours in this title.
It is unknown what color Koopa Troopas are in this game, as the game is in black and white; their behavior is identical to the normal behavior of the red-shelled ones, but the official artwork depicts them as green-shelled.
While the Bombshell Koopa is absent, it has a Buzzy Beetle-like variant known as the Noko Bombette. Additionally, a gigantic Koopa appears at the entrance to the Turtle Zone. It will swallow Mario up, allowing him to enter the zone.

Koopa Troopas, also referred to as Small Koopas, are enemies in Super Mario 64. They are encountered on Bob-omb Battlefield and Tiny-Huge Island only. Only green-shelled Koopa Troopas appear in this game, and unlike nearly all of their other appearances, the Koopa Troopas do not act aggressively towards Mario; in fact, they attempt to escape whenever they see him coming. If jumped on or punched, the Koopa Troopas will be knocked out of their shells and transformed into unshelled Koopas. These Koopa Troopas are harmless and cannot hurt Mario, but they can push him back if touched. Attacking them in this state will defeat them, and they will yield a Blue Coin. Once the Koopa Troopas are knocked out of their shells, Mario can ride on their shells in a manner similar to surfing. Koopa Shells can also be found in certain ! Blocks and clams. Additionally, a Small Koopa Troopa appears on the tiny area of Tiny-Huge Island, but it cannot damage Mario and will be defeated if he attacks or even touches it.
A friendly Giant Koopa called Koopa the Quick also appears in Super Mario 64, in the same courses that regular Koopa Troopas are found in. This marks the first time an individual Koopa Troopa is given a name that differentiates from the species, as well as the first appearance of a Koopa Troopa who seems neutral to the battle between Mario and the Koopa Troop. When Mario speaks to Koopa the Quick, he gives a high-pitched whooping or hiccupping sound that would go on to be the iconic voice of all Koopa Troopas, especially in the Mario Kart series.
Koopa Troopas also appear in the remake of this game, Super Mario 64 DS, and behave the same. In this game, Koopa Shells can also be found in some Bricks. There is also a fully functional unused red Koopa Troopa that can be found in the game's codes. When they see the player, the red Koopa Troopas will run into them and knock them around, unlike the green ones. While their shells cannot be ridden, they can be kicked to hit other enemies. Yoshi can spew fire after eating a red Koopa Troopa.

Although Koopa Troopas do not appear in Super Mario Sunshine, an electric-shelled variant known as the Electro-Koopa and a large, sleeping variant known as the Snooza Koopa do.

 
Koopa Troopas appear in New Super Mario Bros. A difference from before is that ground-pounding a Koopa Troopa can send it into its shell and cause it to begin sliding. Mario can also slide like a kicked Koopa shell once he obtains a Blue Shell. One Blue Koopa Troopa appears in the snow battle stage of the Mario vs. Luigi mode. If Mario attacks it, he can take the Blue Shell and become Shell Mario. The Koopa Troopas dance to the vocal riffs in the music.

Koopa Troopas reappear in Super Mario Galaxy, both in green and red varieties. Koopas revert back to their original appearance by walking on all-fours and not wearing shoes, but in the same manner as Shellcreepers. This makes it the first 3D platforming game to show them walking on all fours. They always have angry expressions and make the same "hiccup" sounds they make in the spin-off installments. The normal green type first appears in the Space Junk Galaxy, and later appears in galaxies like the Bigmouth Galaxy and Bowser Jr.'s Airship Armada, while the red type only appears once in the entire game, with a single Red Koopa appearing in Sea Slide Galaxy, near the lighthouse. 
Their behavior is different to Super Mario 64, as instead of running away from Mario, Koopas instead patrol a set area (green ones move back-and-forth in a straight line, while the red one moves in a circle) and can actually hurt Mario if he touches them.
As usual, jumping on a Koopa or spinning into it will cause the Koopa to retreat into its shell. As usual, waiting a bit will cause the Koopa to come out of its shell. Defeating a Koopa (by throwing its shell away or breaking it) causes it to respawn in the same area it patrolled, making it one of the only enemies in the game to do so (along with Cataquack, in Beach Bowl Galaxy). Koopa shells themselves (both green and red) also appear as common items (more common than the Koopa Troopa enemy itself) which can be thrown to defeat enemies and smash open chests or held onto underwater in order to swim faster.
An unused blue-shelled variant of a Koopa Troopa can be found in the game files.

Koopa Troopas reappear in New Super Mario Bros. Wii, acting as they did in the first New Super Mario Bros. Koopa Troopas once again dance to the vocal riffs in the background music by pausing and facing the screen, though they now do a bit of cha-cha. In this game, they appear in both green and red-colored shell variations. The green Koopa Troopas will walk in a straight line until they reach a wall, but red Koopa Troopas turn around when they reach a drop in the ground. Koopa Troopas can be defeated by Spin Jumps and Ground Pounds, and therefore are much simpler to defeat than in earlier games.

Koopa Troopas reappear in Super Mario Galaxy 2, with the same appearance and behavior as Super Mario Galaxy. In this game, only Green Koopas appear, and only in the Cosmic Cove Galaxy.
Giant Koopas make their 3D debut in this game, and appear in the Supermassive Galaxy.

Koopa Troopas reappear in Super Mario 3D Land as rare enemies. Unlike the Super Mario Galaxy games, the Koopa Troopas have their modern appearance from Super Mario World back, walking on two legs in-game and wearing shoes, although they appear to be a bit larger in this game, which, like the Goombas, make them easier to jump on, and have a dark navy blue pigment in their eyes.
Koopa Troopas are rare to encounter in the game, with only twelve appearing in the whole game, and are found in four levels (Worlds 1-2, 1-3, and 4-1 and Special 4-1). 
They behave similarly to their versions from previous games, where Mario stomps them and they retreat into their shells so Mario can kick them to attack enemies. However, in this game, no matter how Mario attacks them, Koopa Troopas only retreat inside their shells when hit, though hitting them with another shell or running into them while invincible does destroy them. However, this only works if the Koopa that is hit has not retreated into its shell; hitting another shell results in that shell moving, and two shells in motion hitting each other simply rebound. They will never get back out of their shells in this game and remain in them endlessly once they have been attacked. Mario can only kick shells in this title; he cannot hold them. While retreated into their shells, Tanooki Mario can whip them with his tail or Fire Mario can shoot them with fireballs simultaneously five times to make the shell break open and reveal a 1-Up Mushroom.
After the player has defeated Bowser in World 8-Bowser's Castle 1 for the first time, the Toads find a postcard that has a picture of Luigi captured by a Koopa Troopa and a Peepa.

Koopa Troopas reappear in New Super Mario Bros. 2, behaving the same as in New Super Mario Bros. titles. In this game, when Mario touches a Gold Ring, Koopa Troopas turn golden for a time. When these golden Koopa Troopas' shells are tossed, a path of coins is created behind them wherever they go. Additionally, whenever a gold Koopa Troopa hits an enemy, an ascending number of coins are added to the player's coin count, depending on how many enemies are defeated.

Koopa Troopas reappear in New Super Mario Bros. U, once again behaving the same as previous New Super Mario Bros. titles. Paratroopas and Big Koopa Troopas also appear.

Koopa Troopas return in Super Mario 3D World and Super Mario 3D World + Bowser's Fury, with a more common appearance than in previous 3D Super Mario games. Here, they act differently from their appearance in Super Mario 3D Land by usually chasing Mario, like Goombas, rather than always walking back and forth in a straight line. They can also be removed from their shells like in Super Mario World. Koopa Troopas will try to get back into their shell if it is taken, and if they realize their shell has been lost, they express disappointment for a moment and return to chasing Mario. They make the hiccuping sounds they make in spin-off installments and Super Mario Galaxy and Super Mario Galaxy 2. Players also have the ability to climb inside abandoned shells, which will cause them to change color. This speedy form of transportation can be used to defeat other nearby enemies. There also appears to be a time limit for how long Mario and company can remain in these shells before they become dizzy and must exit them.
In the Bowser's Fury campaign of Super Mario 3D World + Bowser's Fury, Koopa Troopas gain a new variation based on the Cat transformation called Cat Koopa Troopas, which have fur, cat ears, and a longer, cat-like tail.

Koopa Troopas reappear in Super Mario Maker, Super Mario Maker for Nintendo 3DS, and Super Mario Maker 2 as an enemy. They function exactly like they did in previous games, except in the Super Mario 3D World game style, where they will not chase Mario. In the Course Editor, they are enemies that can be placed. They start out as the green variants, but when they are shaken, they turn into the red variant. Like many enemies, they can be enlarged by a Super Mushroom and be given wings, and in the case of the latter, they turn into Koopa Paratroopas. They can be placed in Bill Blasters, Warp Pipes, and Blocks.
When they are enlarged, their shells can break through blocks without bouncing. Koopa Shells are able to bounce on Trampolines and Note Blocks in this game. In the Super Mario World and Super Mario 3D World game styles (the latter being exclusive to Super Mario Maker 2), Koopa Troopas are turned into unshelled Koopas when jumped on.

Koopa Troopas reappear in Super Mario Run and behave the same as in the New Super Mario Bros. games, although in this game, when Mario stomps on them, it will instantly send the shell sliding, as if they were already kicked or thrown.

In Super Mario Odyssey, Koopa Troopas appear as non-playable characters rather than enemies, serving as hosts for minigames, and have their usual modern appearance seen in many Super Mario games. Like most of the game's other non-playable characters, all of these Koopa Troopas are wearing irremovable hats, preventing Mario from potentially capturing them.
In the Sand Kingdom, Snow Kingdom, and Moon Kingdom, a Koopa Troopa (a red Koopa Troopa wearing a sombrero; a blue one wearing a snow hood; a purple one wearing an astronaut helmet, respectively) hosts the Trace-Walking minigame that involves Mario walking on a circle of arrows (a triangle for the Snow Kingdom version) that disappear after some time. If Mario gets 80 points, the Koopa Troopa gives him a Power Moon. After breaking the Moon Rocks in the respective kingdoms during the post-game, Mario can take on each trace-walking challenge again for more Power Moons should he score 90 points or more.
After completing the game, Mario can find a green Koopa Troopa in a cap that hosts the Koopa Freerunning mini-game, where Mario races a quartet of Koopa Troopas known as the Roving Racers, with the goal to reach a shining beacon at the end. Placing first rewards Mario with a Power Moon. Mario can race against the Roving Racers in every kingdom (excluding the Cloud Kingdom, Ruined Kingdom, Dark Side and Darker Side), and the environment of each kingdom is in the same state as when Mario first visits it (rainy in the Metro Kingdom, for example). After winning the Regular Cup and breaking the Moon Rock in the same kingdom, Mario can rematch the Roving Racers to collect a second Power Moon in the more difficult Master Cup version. In the Master Cup, a gold Koopa Troopa replaces the purple-shelled racer and often uses shortcuts to reach the goal. Interestingly, the Roving Racers have longer arms and legs to match Mario's body proportions. 
In some kingdoms, Koopa Troopas appear as enemies in 8-bit segments. This makes them the only enemies to be exclusive to 8-bit segments, and the only ones to have a non-hostile counterpart.

Koopa Troopas return as enemies in Super Mario Bros. Wonder, where they have a hunched posture similar to appearances between Super Mario 64 and Super Smash Bros. Melee. A new, pink-shelled variant that wears roller skates named Rolla Koopa also appears, as well as a variant resembling a sea turtle and soft-shelled turtle called Snortoise.

Koopa Troopas are the most frequently recurring minions in King Koopa's army on The Super Mario Bros. Super Show!. The Koopa Troopas are generally portrayed as being slightly slow and incompetent, although they are usually successful in carrying out simple jobs. The design used for Koopa Troopas on The Super Mario Bros. Super Show! is different than their in-game appearance, depicting them with green skin, green-rimmed shells, and beady eyes. It is possible that they were given green skin to better correlate with King Koopa's appearance. The Koopa Troopas on the show are depicted as bipeds, something that had yet to be seen in any game until Super Mario World. Also, as a joke, Koopa Troopas are usually seen wearing turtleneck sweaters.
In early episodes such as "King Mario of Cramalot" and "Rolling Down the River", Koopa Troopas speak in very slow, deep voices. However, in all of their later appearances, their voices, while still somewhat slow, are notably higher.
In many episodes, a single Koopa Troopa is shown to be a member of King Koopa's "Koopa Pack", which also consists of Mouser and Tryclyde. There is never any indication of how this particular Koopa Troopa earned his rank in the Koopa Pack, as there is nothing to differentiate him from any other generic Koopa Troopa. This Koopa Troopa goes along with King Koopa's plots, and is usually dressed up in costume like King Koopa and many other minions to go along with the theme of the episode.
In the episode "Princess, I Shrunk the Mario Brothers" it is shown that Koopa Troopas have a phobia of vegetables.

A single, red-shelled Koopa Troopa makes an appearance in the Super Mario World episode "Fire Sale". This Koopa Troopa's design is truer to the games than that of The Super Mario Bros. Super Show!, and is based on the Paratroopas that briefly appear in The Adventures of Super Mario Bros. 3 episode "Do the Koopa". This is also the only Koopa Troopa to appear in the follow-ups from The Super Mario Bros. Super Show!.
The Koopa Troopa in "Fire Sale" never speaks, and serves as Kootie Pie Koopa's lackey and personal punching bag throughout the episode. Near the beginning of the episode, Kootie Pie jumps on the Koopa Troopa repeatedly, knocking him out of his shell. When Kootie Pie throws the Koopa Troopa back into his shell, he winds up wearing the shell backward and is stuck like that for a while. Despite the abuse he took, the Koopa Troopa has the last laugh towards Kootie Pie at the end, when she is frozen in a block of ice. The Koopa just reads a magazine and sips ice tea, ignoring Kootie Pie's complaints.

In the interactive OVA Super Mario World: Mario to Yoshi no Bōken Land, several Koopa Troopas appear under the command of Iggy, but they are defeated by Mario, Luigi, and Yoshi.

Koopa Troopas appear throughout the Nintendo Adventure Books series, which gives them a weapon not seen anywhere else: a retractable cannon in their shells that allows them to bombard their enemies with a seemingly limitless barrage of empty Koopa Shells.
The only noteworthy role Koopa Troopas have in the series is in the twelfth and final book, Brain Drain. Due to Iggy Koopa's Synapse Switcher, Luigi can switch minds with one, allowing him to go undercover in Iggy's hideout. While in the Koopa Troopa's body, Luigi also discovers that pizza tastes disgusting to Koopa Troopas.

In Mario Roulette, two Koopa Troopas can be seen in the audience when Mario explains how to play the game.

Several Koopa Troopas appear in the Super Mario Adventures comic book, which is loosely based on the Super Mario World video game. In this comic, Koopa Troopas first appear during Bowser's initial attack on Peach's Castle. They are among the many enemies that come through Warp Pipes and attack the Mario Bros.
After the supposed rescue of Princess Peach from Wendy O. Koopa's castle, Toad is sent back to the Mushroom Kingdom with the aid of a Cape to get a rescue party for the Mario Bros. and the Princess. He is waylaid by Bowser and several Koopa Troopas masquerading as Toads, who aid Bowser during Princess Peach's second abduction in that story.

Koopas accompany Bowser and the Koopa Kids to the real world during the events of the PC, SNES, and NES versions of Mario is Missing!. In this game, Bowser sends Koopas to different cities throughout Earth, where they wreak havoc by stealing precious artifacts from various museums and national monuments. Before Luigi can advance through Bowser's castle, he must return every missing artifact to its place. The Koopas in this game do not resist Luigi's attacks, and it is impossible to be hurt by them. When jumped on, the Koopas without artifacts disappear, while the ones carrying artifacts either explode, take off like a rocket, or disintegrate into dust. This disintegration was a style commonly used in cartoons, where the body of a creature turns to dust until only its eyes remain. The eyes blink once and then disappear.

In the PC, SNES, and NES versions of Mario's Time Machine, Koopas must be defeated so Mario can get an item and warp to other times in history. They behave identically to the Koopas in Mario is Missing!. In the Nintendo Entertainment System version, red-shelled Koopas are found in a Mario Bros.-style arena to obtain the item, then yellow-shelled ones are found within the various time periods. Here, they act as they do in the main series, and are accompanied by Bodyslam Koopas, heavyweight Koopa variants. On the moon, Koopas wear space helmets, which cover the tops of their shells whenever they retract into them.

A Koopa Troopa first appears as a playable character in Super Mario Kart, where he is a lightweight whose special item is a Koopa Shell. Koopa Troopa is one of the fastest characters with little traction in Super Mario Kart. Though absent in Mario Kart 64, Nintendo Power, in punch-out cards, have suggested a rumor that Wario has stolen its kart on top of multiple driving infractions, though other characters have alleged records in driver's history such as Luigi's absence in Super Mario 64 being due to his tinkering his kart and Yoshi's distributing counterfeit item boxes. Additionally, on page 6, there is fan art of a Koopa Troopa calling an officer alleging that Wario has stolen its kart.
In Mario Kart: Super Circuit, green and red Koopa Troopas can be seen at the awards ceremony at the end of a Grand Prix.
A green Koopa reappears in Mario Kart: Double Dash!! and is partnered with a red Paratroopa. Their special items are Triple Green Shells or Triple Red Shells. Koopa's personal kart is the Koopa Dasher.
A green Koopa appears as a default playable character in Mario Kart Wii, where he is given an outstanding Mini-Turbo bonus that is rivaled by Dry Bowser's, Dry Bones', and Wario's. He also is given a small handling bonus and is given a representative course called Koopa Cape, which is the second track of the Star Cup.
Koopa Troopa is playable in Mario Kart 7. He is a Feather class racer, with acceleration and off-road being his best stats. Additionally, his track, Koopa Cape, returns.

Koopa Troopa returns as a default playable character in Mario Kart 8 and Mario Kart 8 Deluxe. He is a lightweight character, although he is one of the heavier lightweights, meaning his speed and weight are slightly better than that of the lightest lightweights at the expense of acceleration, handling, and grip, making him more balanced. He has the same stats as Toad, Toadette, Shy Guy, Lakitu, Larry, Wendy, and Isabelle. Koopa Troopa also appears on some of the posters for the sponsor Galaxy Air. Koopa Troopa is the Normal Staff Ghost for DS Cheep Cheep Beach.
Koopa Troopa appears in Mario Kart Tour as a Normal-class driver. His special item is the Triple Green Shells. The Roving Racers from Super Mario Odyssey also appear as drivers in the game. Of note is that despite reusing the New Super Mario Bros. artwork, Koopa Troopa and all variants otherwise are depicted with very light turquoise eyes.

A single Koopa Troopa enemy appears in Yoshi's Safari, to aid Bowser in his invasion of Jewelry Land. This Koopa Troopa appears as the penultimate boss in the game, fighting in Mecha Nokonoko. It has a gun turret manned by four Koopa Troopas.

Koopa Troopas, known as Koopas, reappear in Hotel Mario as enemies along with Flying Koopas, Skeleton Koopas, Mecha Koopas, and a variant of Flying Koopas called Z Koopas. In this game, Koopas open doors that Mario has to close. They can be defeated from either a stomp or a fireball attack.
In Larry's Chillton Hotel, one of the spawning Koopas randomly has pink eyes, and will drop a light that removes darkness from the hotel. Additionally, the Koopas of Lemmy's High-ate Regency Hotel are red instead of green, possibly to differentiate from the green-shelled Flying Koopas; Bowser's Seizures Palace Hotel contains both green and red Koopas, depending on the stage. In this game, they are mere palette swaps.

A Koopa Troopa has appeared as a playable character in a few games of the Mario Tennis series, beginning with Mario's Tennis, but have equally taken on the role of being background characters. In the Nintendo 64 version of Mario Tennis, Koopa Troopas only appear in Paratroopa's trophy celebration to congratulate him, as well as in the background of many courts. In Mario Power Tennis, Koopa is a playable character of the Speedy type, and his Offensive Power Shot and Defensive Power Shot are Water Bomb and Water Shell Dash, respectively. Koopa Troopa's default partner is Yoshi. In Mario Tennis Open, Koopa Troopas are line judges in the Mushroom Valley court. In Mario Tennis Aces, Koopa Troopa is an opponent in the Adventure Mode mission Battle Boat. He is also a playable character of the Speedy type, like in Mario Power Tennis. Since an update on August 1, 2018, Koopa was made available to all players, although participants of the July 2018 online tournament could play as Koopa Troopa earlier. Unlike before, Koopa Troopa was made available in three color palettes: green, red, and blue.
Koopa appears in a few of Mario Power Tennis's cutscenes. The opening cutscene shows a Koopa briefly seen using its tennis racket to deflect Bob-ombs headed towards Peach Dome. In his trophy ceremony from completing a Singles Tournament, Koopa walks on stage, being greeted by Luigi, Mario, and Peach, but he soon slips on a banana peel and slides across the stage, eventually hitting Luigi, whom he catches the trophy from.

In Mario Clash, Koopas are the only way to defeat enemies such as Thornies is to hit them with a Koopa shell. There are always two Koopas; if one Koopa falls off a cliff another will appear. They once again walk on four legs, and sometimes make a fanged "menacing" face that is identical to the one used by the related Shellcreepers in Mario Bros.

Koopa Troopas also appear, albeit less frequently, in Super Mario World 2: Yoshi's Island. In this game, Shy-Guys largely replace Goombas and Koopa Troopas as the game's most persistent foes; while Shy-Guys appear in almost every level, Koopa Troopas are much rarer. They first appear in the level Visit Koopa And Para-Koopa. In this game, only red and green shelled Koopa Troopas appear. Like in Super Mario World, these Koopa Troopas can be knocked out of their shells. There is also a red Koopa Troopa boss in this game named Hookbill the Koopa. He first starts out as a regular-sized Koopa Troopa, but is then put under Kamek's spell, turning Hookbill into a much larger Koopa Troopa that walks on all fours.
Koopa Troopas and Para-Koopas reappear in both sequels, Yoshi's Island DS and Yoshi's New Island, having the same role as before. In Yoshi's Island DS, Koopa Troopas resembles their design from Super Mario World 2: Yoshi's Island, the only difference being a much lighter outline and a slight increase in size, while Koopa Troopas in Yoshi's New Island resemble their design in the Super Mario series.

In Mario's FUNdamentals, Koopa Troopas, referred to as simply Koopas, appear as a suit of playing cards in Go Fish. They are also used as Mario's pieces in Checkers, and Koopas and their shells are used to count points in Backgammon.

Koopa Troopas are absent from Super Mario RPG: Legend of the Seven Stars, seemingly replaced by Terrapins, which are basically armored Koopa Troopas. However, many Paratroopas are present in the game, including the Big Troopa and Grand Troopa. One of Mario's weapons is the Koopa Shell. There is also the Paratroopa Shell, which is a red, winged shell belonging to a Paratroopa.

Beginning with Mario Party, Koopa Troopa's most frequent role in the Mario Party series has been the proprietor of the Koopa Bank or the Koopa Bank Capsule, a location which both gives and takes coins to and from the players. A Koopa Troopa appears as Mario's starting partner in Battle Mode in Mario Party 3. Throughout the series, they also appear as background characters in boards and minigames.

Koopa Troopas appear in the first Mario Party game to award the player with ten coins each time the player passes the starting point. Four Koopa Troopas appear in the minigame Shell Game, where the player needs to find the Koopa Troopa who has the treasure chest with coins inside it. In Bowl Over, the solo player uses a Koopa Shell in order to knock over the three other players. An item called No Koopa can be bought in the item shop in Mushroom Village for 500 coins. The item causes the Koopa Troopa to not appear near the start of the boards.

A Koopa Troopa appears in the introduction of Mario Party 2 trying to warn the characters of Bowser's attack. One Koopa Troopa hosts the Koopa Bank, and another one hosts the Item Shop in this game. In Tile Driver, one of the pictures that sometimes needs to be made is a Koopa Troopa. Bowl Over also reappears in this game. A Koopa Troopa also appears in the ending of each board, being attacked by Bowser and the winning player rescues the Koopa Troopa before facing Bowser.

A Koopa Troopa appears as Mario's starting partner in Battle Mode in Mario Party 3. Koopa Troopa has one attack and two HP, and its salary is one coin. They also host the Koopa Bank once again. Koopa Troopas, along with Goombas and Boos appear in the minigame Curtain Call, where the players need to memorize the order in which the Koopa Troopas, Boos, and Goombas appear. In the minigame Slot Synch, getting a Koopa Troopa on the Dice Block will give a team two points. In Three Door Monty, the players needs to answer which door the Koopa Troopa, Boo, or Toad enters. The player who answers the fastest wins.

In Mario Party 4, a Koopa Troopa is one of the hosts of the game, as well as the host of Koopa's Seaside Soiree and the option room. Koopa Troopas also appear in the following minigames: Paratrooper Plunge, where the characters have to avoid red Paratroopas, GOOOOOOOAL!! as a member of the crowd, and as an unlockable character in the Beach Volley Folley minigame.

The Koopa Bank returns in Mario Party 5. In the minigame Flower Shower, two Koopa Troopas exit a church, and then the red Koopa Troopa will throw a bouquet up in the sky. The players need to collect as many flowers as they can within the time limit. In the minigame Triple Jump, a Koopa Troopa is standing next to the 90-foot marker. Koopa Troopas also appear in the background in Random Ride.

In Mario Party 6, Koopa Troopas appear on the board Faire Square, hosting many of the board events. Koopa Troopas also appear in the background in Odd Card Out and Lab Brats. Koopa Troopas also take care of the Orb Shops during the day, while Shy Guys take care of it during the night.

In Mario Party Advance, Koopa runs the Koopa Bank in Shroom City. According to his description, he concentrates heavily on working and cleaning. When first approached, he says that he has been robbed and asks for the player's help. If accepted, he immediately says that he will reward them with a Gaddget if they do. At this point, Shroomlock enters, and Koopa explains that a bunch of money was stolen after the power was off. He then lists the three people in the bank at the time: Goombob, Mr. I, and Paratroopa, leading to the deduction that one of them was the culprit. After interrogating each of them, the thief is revealed to be Paratroopa. At this reveal, Koopa is shocked, since Paratroopa is his cousin, but Paratroopa soon flies in to say that it was only a prank. Koopa then asks Shroomlock not to arrest him, since he did not mean any harm, and Shroomlock obliges. As a reward for clearing up the whole debacle, Koopa gives the player the Card Trick Gaddget. The ending credits state that Koopa often swaps jobs with Paratroopa.
Koopa Troopas also appear in the minigames Floor It!, where they are one of the four species that must be brought to their respective floors, and Watch 'Em, where a Koopa Troopa hides in one of three Warp Pipes, and the player must guess which one contains it.

In Mario Party 7, Koopa Troopas take care of the Orb Shops in Pagoda Peak and Windmillville. Also in Pagoda Peak, a Koopa Troopa named Koopa Master lives at the top of the peak, where he sells stars to players for 10, 20, 30, or 40 coins.

In Mario Party 8, there is a somewhat notable Koopa Troopa called Holly Koopa who is quite minor in Shy Guy's Perplex Express, giving out money in exchange for candy when a player lands on her Green Space. In Star Battle Arena however, players must get 50 coins to her to win the match. Some other Koopa Troopas are found occupying the seats. Koopa Troopas also have their own board named after them in Koopa's Tycoon Town. Koopa Troopas are found nearly everywhere in this board from being Koopa Bellboys to sitting on park benches. Some also act as taxis to get places.  A Koopa Troopa is the main baker in Sugar Rush, a minigame. Other minigames they are in include Picture Perfect where a flying Red Shell is one of the pictures, Blazing Lassos where they make a cameo, Breakneck Building in another cameo, Specter Inspector as an enemy to find, audiences in Fruit Picker, Pour to Score, Stampede, a biker in Moped Mayhem, and finally the proprietor in the Surprise Wagon and the music maker in the Carnival Calliope.

A lone Koopa Troopa named Koopa, along with his grandfather, Koopa Krag, have major roles in Mario Party DS. When Mario and his friends travel to Kamek's Library, Koopa asks them to help free his grandfather after they find out that Koopa Krag has been trapped in a book by Kamek.  After Kamek is defeated and Koopa Krag is freed from the book, Koopa Krag and Koopa thank Mario and his friends by giving them the fourth Sky Crystal.
Koopa also appears as a board figurine. To unlock his figure, the player must earn 24,000 Mario Party points. If the player earns 23,000 points, they can obtain Koopa's friend badge. Koopa is one of the five characters with a friend badge, with the other four being Diddy Kong, Toadette, Donkey Kong, and Wiggler.

A Koopa Troopa appears as a starting playable character in Mario Party 9, simply referred to as "Koopa." Koopa is available by default in Solo mode; thus, unlike Shy Guy and Magikoopa, he will not run away with the player's Mini Stars if he wins a board in this mode, making Mario Party 9 one of the games where Koopa is not allied with the Koopa Troop. His default partner in this game is Toad.
Some other Koopa Troopas also appear in several minigames. There is a constellation of a Koopa Troopa's shell called "Speedy Shell," purchasable at the Museum for 50 Points.

Koopa Troopas are interactable characters in Mario Party: Island Tour. They appear in a bubble in the minigame Spin the Bubble. Others appear as tiles in the minigames Match Faker and Tap Dash. One also appears as a constellation in the minigame Starring Artist.

Koopa Troopas reappear in Mario Party 10. They act as non-playable characters. They can be seen in some minigames and in the Mario Board.

Koopa Troopas are again minor characters in Mario Party: Star Rush. They appear in a few minigames, such as in Pop Quiz where they are selectable enemies in a few questions.

Koopa Troopas also appear in Mario Party: The Top 100, reprising their roles in the minigames Three Door Monty, GOOOOOOOAL!!, Dinger Derby, Triple Jump, Ice Hockey, Slot Trot, Dart Attack, Jigsaw Jumble, and Soar to Score. They also replace the Shy Guys in Blame It on the Crane. Additionally, a Koopa Troopa amiibo can be scanned for bonus coins in Minigame Island, and a Koopa Troopa stamp can be collected in Minigame Match.

A Koopa Troopa appears as a playable character in Super Mario Party, making his second fully playable appearance in the series. His special Dice Block, the Koopa Troopa Dice Block, can roll 1, 1, 2, 3, 3, or 10. Red Koopa Troopas also appear as non-playable characters found in the background of some minigames.
On the game's official website, Koopa Troopa was erroneously listed as Koopa Trooper. This has since been fixed. As the game progresses and more Gems are collected, a Koopa Troopa can be seen leading a cheer squad to root for the lead player in their journey.

A Koopa Troopa appears in Mario Party Superstars, where he reprises his host status from the original Mario Party. This marks the first time that a Koopa Troopa has hosted since Mario Party 4. Another Koopa Troopa also appears, hosting the Koopa Bank.

Koopa Troopa reappears in Super Mario Party Jamboree and reprises its playable character role from Super Mario Party, making it the third game it has appeared in as a playable character in this series.

Koopa Troopas have appeared in every game of the Super Smash Bros. series. They first appear in Super Smash Bros., but only in the background of the Mushroom Kingdom stage. 

Koopa Troopas most prominently appear as enemies in the single-player campaigns throughout the series. In Super Smash Bros. Melee, Koopa Troopas appear in the first stage of Adventure Mode, Mushroom Kingdom, though they can also uncommonly from a Party Ball during regular matches. Unlike in the Super Mario games, green Koopa Troopas will turn around when reaching a ledge. In Super Smash Bros. Brawl, Koopa Troopas serve as part of Bowser's army in The Subspace Emissary, and they are encountered as enemies in certain stages. In one part, a Koopa had stolen Donkey Kong and Diddy Kong's banana hoard, so the two Kongs face off against several Koopa Troopas on a brief quest to retrieve their bananas. In one cutscene, Donkey Kong is shown to be able to break a Koopa's shell using his fist, which cannot occur during gameplay. Later on, Diddy Kong, Fox McCloud, and Falco Lombardi also fight some Koopa Troopas while searching for the kidnapped Donkey Kong. Koopa Troopas are last seen being used by Bowser to attack Castle Dedede in order to steal the trophies that he had amassed. In Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS, Koopa Troopas appear as enemies in Smash Run, behaving the same as their Subspace Emissary counterparts.
Koopa Troopas have also appeared in the form of various collectible items. In Super Smash Bros. Melee, there is a collectible trophy of a green Koopa Troopa. In Super Smash Bros. Brawl, there are two collectible trophies of a Koopa Troopa, colored green and red respectively, as well as a sticker depicting the Koopa Troopa artwork from Super Mario Strikers. In Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS / Wii U, there is a green Koopa Troopa trophy, and the Nintendo 3DS version exclusively also has a red Koopa Troopa trophy. In Super Smash Bros. Ultimate, there is a Novice type support spirit of a green Koopa Troopa, taking one slot and equipping the fighter with a Green Shell at the start of a battle when used. In its spirit battle, the player faces Squirtle on the Golden Plains stage. The spirit's core can be used with an Old Man Lobber core and a support core to summon Tortimer's spirit.
A Koopa Troopa was one of the requested playable characters for Super Smash Bros. Melee.

Koopa Troopas have appeared in various ways throughout the Mario Golf series. In the Nintendo 64 version of Mario Golf, hole 10 of Mario's Star is shaped like a Koopa Troopa. In Mario Golf: Toadstool Tour, a green Koopa makes its playable debut, having the best Impact and Control, but the worst drive distance out of the characters. In the game's opening movie, Koopa is seen playing and then napping alongside Yoshi. Koopa Troopa has the best Impact and Control of any character, but he has the worst drive distance out of any character. In Mario Golf: World Tour, Koopa Troopas are non-playable characters in the Castle Club mode, and Koopa is one of the names that can appear on the tournament scoreboard. In Mario Golf: Super Rush, Koopa Troopas appear in the Bonny Greens practice area and the Rookie Course. There are also two master Koopa Troopas called Master Lob and the Master Stinger, respectively, and also appears as the Manager along with the Head Coach. Starting from Mario Golf: Super Rush's version 3.0.0 update, a Koopa Troopa was added as a playable character, and his Special Shot is the Shell Skipper, which can bounce the ball further down the hole. Participating in certain online tournaments allows the player to unlock red, blue, and yellow alternate colors for the Koopa Troopa.

Several Koopa Troopas appear in Paper Mario, both as enemies and allies. The Koopa Troopas under Bowser's command have red shells, a pair of sunglasses, and spiked black armbands and collars similar to Bowser; they aid him in his plot to kidnap Princess Peach.
In battle, they can withdraw into their shells and shoot themselves at Mario; they are capable of doing this outside of battle as well, and are generally the first enemy Mario encounters that can get a First Strike on him. Koopa Troopas are also the first foes encountered by Mario and company that have a defense stat of more than 0 - however, their defense can be reduced to 0 if they are flipped onto their backs with a Jump attack.
A population of peaceful Koopa Troopas is found in Koopa Village. At one point, the town is overrun by Fuzzies, who steal the shells off most of the Koopas, including the shell of Kooper; after Mario and Goombario get rid of them, they become quite popular in the village, and Kooper joins Mario's party to aid him in his adventure. Later on, the residents of Koopa Village even send a letter to Mario, thanking him and apologizing for not rewarding him before.
Jr. Troopa is a baby Koopa Troopa who Mario encounters early in the game when he attacks Mario for intruding on his playground. Upon his defeat, he then constantly follows Mario and his allies to pick fights and seek revenge. He also makes a very small cameo in the sequel Paper Mario: The Thousand-Year Door.
Koopa Paratroopas also appear as enemies; stomping on them removes their wings and reverts them to Koopa Troopas. Paper Mario also introduces a stronger variant called the Dark Koopa, as well as the spiky armored Koopatrol, which are similar to Terrapins.

Koopa Troopas return in Paper Mario: The Thousand-Year Door as common enemies and peaceful NPCs; the enemy Koopas retain their red shells and accessories, though most of them are not under Bowser's command. Peaceful Koopas often (but not always) wear green shells, and generally appear in Petalburg.
One of the residents, Koops, joins Mario and Goombella on their quest in hopes of fighting Hooktail to avenge his 'dead' father, Koopley (who is revealed to have been alive in the dragon's stomach). King K and Shellshock are minor Koopa characters that Mario encounters in the Glitz Pit.
Koopa Troopas are first seen as enemies in Petal Meadows, appearing on the path to Shhwonk Fortress. They also appear in Hooktail Castle, where they are fought with or alongside Paratroopas, and rarely in Rogueport Underground after completing Chapter 5, where they may appear alongside an encountered Hammer Bro, Koopatrol, or Magikoopa. Their stats are almost identical to those in the previous game, except that their shell attack now has a power of 2; as usual, they are the first enemy with defense to appear in the game.
Dark Koopas return, and new variants are introduced: the KP Koopa is a yellow-shelled Koopa with the same stats as normal Koopas, while the Shady Koopa can attack Mario even while flipped on its back. Each of them also has a Paratroopa variant. Koopatrols also return and gain a dark variant.
During the intermission platforming stages where Bowser becomes playable, he may encounter the same Koopa Troopas that Mario fights, but they will run away from Bowser when he approaches.
A heroic Koopa is said to be one of the original four heroes who defeated the Shadow Queen; this Koopa's spirit is encountered at Keelhaul Key as one of the four Black Chest Demons.

Koopa Troopas reappear in Super Paper Mario, where their color schemes are a bit different: enemy Koopas may now appear wearing either green or red shells and will walk off ledges or turn around depending on their shell color as in the main series of platformers. Koopas do not have as much Defense as previous appearances and only have 1 HP - but they are generally harder to defeat since stomping on them will cause them to retreat inside their shells. Mario and company can defeat one using Boomer, Cudge, or certain items, as well as another Koopa's shell. Koopatrols make another appearance, along with a new soccer-based variant known as the Koopa Striker; both also have dark variants.
The Koopa Troopas under Bowser's control are not as hostile towards Mario, and even attempt to save Princess Peach from Count Bleck; however, they will still attack the party, even if the player returns to earlier levels and selects Bowser. Koopa Troopas appear as enemies in many locations: Lineland Road (1-1), Mount Lineland (1-2), Gloam Valley (2-1), The Bitlands (3-1), The Dotwood Tree (3-3), Castle Bleck Entry (8-1), Castle Bleck Foyer (8-2), Castle Bleck Inner Sanctum (8-4). They are found within the Flipside Pit of 100 Trials in rooms 11, 14, 16, and 19. One of the Koopas in the Bitlands becomes a Mega Koopa upon making contact with a Mega Star. Another named Private Koopa appears along with a specific Hammer Bro after Chapter 1, helping escort Princess Peach until they find a dead-end, where Private Koopa gets brainwashed.

 
Koopa Troopas return in Paper Mario: Sticker Star. Their beaks are now flat instead of curved, and their eyes are slightly smaller and more oval-shaped. These Koopa Troopas no longer wear sunglasses, and Shell stickers (both normal and Shiny) allow Mario to call in friendly Koopas for assistance; regular Shell stickers summoning green Koopa Troopas, while Shiny Shell stickers summon red Koopa Troopas.
Similar to the previous installations, Koopa Troopas attack by folding into shells and ramming into Mario; the attack deals more damage than in previous games, and occasionally inflicts the dizzy status. Using a Tail Sticker can reliably defeat them. Koopa Troopas can be beaten with a First Strike without battling once the player has obtained six HP-Up Hearts.
Paper Mario: Sticker Star has two variants: the Mural Koopa, an animated depiction of an ancient Koopa Troopa that walks on all fours, and the Shiny Koopa, a Shiny version of the normal Koopa that does more damage and has more defense.

Green Koopa Troopas and red Koopa Paratroopas appear in Paper Mario: Color Splash as enemies. When a Koopa Paratroopa is jumped on, it loses its wings and becomes a normal red Koopa Troopa.
Koopa Troopas appear as enemies in the following locations: Ruddy Road, Cherry Lake, Bloo Bay Beach, The Golden Coliseum, Vortex Island, Lighthouse Island, Fortune Island, and Green Energy Plant. A variant of Koopa Troopa known as Koopa Troopa 6-Stacks appear in Lighthouse Island and Green Energy Plant.
In the parallel world of Vortex Island, after Mario squeezes the Washing Machine, a Koopa Troopa is third in the line of enemies that attack Mario in retaliation for their lost laundry. In Dark Bloo Inn, another Koopa Troopa is part of the Shady Sledge Bro's gang. A Koopa Troopa serves as the third-round opponent in Roshambo Temple #1; after defeating Morton Koopa Jr., it will be replaced with the Rock Paper Wizard until they are beaten.
Koopa Troopas attack by pulling into their shells and ramming Mario as usual, doing 7 HP of damage. When a Koopa Troopa is jumped on, it will go into its shell - if attacked again, it will be kicked into the enemies behind it; if there is a wall behind them, it will bounce back and hit Mario. They will be knocked onto their shells if a POW Block is used. If summoned into battle using an Enemy Card, a Koopa will use a Shell Shot attack to deal 21 damage to all grounded enemies, similarly to the Shell sticker from the previous game. The shell will bounce off of any walls, dealing a second hit to the enemies but also damaging Mario. Enemies can also send the Koopa's shell flying towards Mario if they use jump attacks on the Koopa between turns.
Some Koopa Troopas appear as NPCs in levels such as The Golden Coliseum and the Sunset Express. Three green and three red Koopa Troopas dance in Birdo's concert at Plum Park.

Koopa Troopas appear in Paper Mario: The Origami King as members of the Folded Soldiers, giant Paper Macho Soldiers, and ordinary paper Koopa Troopas. In Picnic Road, the Koopa Troopas are shown worshipping the Earth Vellumental as a deity.

Koopa Troopas appear in Mario & Luigi: Superstar Saga in the crew of the Koopa Cruiser, and are introduced alongside the ship by Bowser. The crew are referred to as part of his overall "Bowser Baddies" in the English version of the game, while the Japanese version refers to them as part of the "Koopa Corps".
Before boarding the Koopa Cruiser, a lost Koopa in the crew is found in Toadtown Square who asks Mario and Luigi where assembly area is. When the Mario Bros. reach the assembly area where the Koopa Cruiser is stationed, Bowser calls for the crew’s assembly to no response. Moments later the crew arrive and begin boarding. Once all the Koopas and Goombas have boarded the Koopa Cruiser and are in flight above the skies of the Mushroom Kingdom, the crew teach the Mario Bros. information on how to maneuver. 

On the first section of the Cruiser explored, a Koopa in the crew informs the Mario Bros. that Bowser’s forces recently added a new member who is in training. A pair of crew Koopas teach the Mario Bros. how to jump together, while another pair teach the Bros. how to switch places in line. Before the Mario Bros. leave the section, another pair teach them how to use a Bros. Block by jumping beneath it in an alternating pattern. In the next section, a photographer Koopa informs the Mario Bros. that they need passport photos to enter the Beanbean Kingdom after inspecting their suitcase. The photographer offers to take their photo but warns them not to do any silly poses, but the player can by pressing any direction on the directional pad. Three other Koopas in the crew are also present waiting in line for their photos to be taken. If the Mario Bros. pointed the lost Koopa from Toadtown Square in the right direction, he offers them a Super Mushroom while organizing crates at the end of the section. At the next section over, a crew Koopa tells the Mario Bros. to be careful after they break a barrel. He then trains them how to fight as a pair against the Goombas stored in cargo. After the training, another Koopa in the crew is struggling to barrel disobedient Goombas. He teaches the Mario Bros. how to start off battles by stomping on enemies and drops barrels on the Goombas after the Bros. subdue them. In the subsequent section, three more in the crew are met by the Mario Bros. One of them informs of the importance of reading signs and the other complains about the barrels blocking the way to the bridge. The third tells the Mario Bros. that hitting the ! Block will activate a crane that moves cargo, dubbed "Mr. Pinch". After the Bros. activate the block, "Mr. Pinch" picks up Luigi instead of the cargo, the Koopa comments on the mistake and suggests he be used as a lookout. On the upper deck of the ship, a crew member informs Bowser that they will soon be passing over the border.

After the Koopa Cruiser is destroyed by Fawful, three surviving Koopas in the crew are found wounded before the border in Stardust Fields. One of them states that they haven’t finished paying off the Koopa Cruiser. Another asks the Mario Bros. to find Bowser and calls out for help. The last one encountered informs the Mario Bros. that Bowser fell on the other side of the border.
Koopa Troopas also appear in Mario & Luigi: Superstar Saga + Bowser's Minions, where they additionally appear as enemies and recruitable allies exclusively in Minion Quest: The Search for Bowser. They are melee troopers and attack by ramming into opponents in their shells. Their special skill, Rock Solid, allows them to increase their defense. Captain Koopa Troopa appears as a usable captain. Koopa Troopas are weak against Dry Bones.
Although no normal Koopa Troopas can be fought in the Superstar Saga story mode, Beanish variants exist as enemies.

In Mario & Luigi: Partners in Time, the crew of the Koopa Cruiser from the past, also referred to as personnel, help teach Baby Mario and Baby Luigi how to maneuver. They also act as a resistance to the Shroob invasion, by repelling Shroob saucers and offering to rescue villagers.

At the first section of the Cruiser, a Koopa in the crew tells the baby Mario Bros. to head to the bridge where Baby Bowser awaits and instructs them to demonstrate their jumps. The next crew member tells the Mario Bros. to run and jump to make it over the crates. Another informs them that M Blocks only respond to Baby Mario and L Blocks only respond to Baby Luigi. A crew Koopa standing before the bridge warns them that anything can happen because they’re babies. On the bridge, three are seen piloting the Koopa Cruiser. They fire the Koopa Cannon to destroy three pursuing Shroob saucers at the orders of Baby Bowser. They become distracted in praising him and briefly lose control of the Cruiser and are scolded. They inform Baby Bowser that villagers in Hollijolli Village are under attack by Shroobs on the ground. After relenting to Baby Peach crying, Baby Bowser orders them fire the Koopa Cannon again on the Shroobs. After firing a shot which disorients the Shroobs, they land the Koopa Cruiser to deploy the baby Mario Bros.
Once the adult Mario and Luigi have been brought aboard the Koopa Cruiser’s bridge, the crew report that they’re receiving a transmission from Shroob Castle and the alarms sound. They put the transmission on the bridge’s monitor revealing Princess Shroob. After hearing threats in her language, they warn that a Shroob missile is approaching the Cruiser from her castle. Baby Bowser orders them to fire the Koopa Cannon again to which the crew responds that they have no ammo left. The missile hits the Koopa Cruiser, sending the ship and its crew crash landing into Bowser's Castle.
A reporter named Kylie Koopa also makes an appearance in the game. A sub-species called the Koopeleon also appears in the game.

As opposed to the past two games, standard Koopa Troopas make an appearance in Mario & Luigi: Bowser's Inside Story. In Blubble Lake, Bowser rescues a group of Koopa Troopas from a cage and is able to use them as a Special Attack called Koopa Corps, where he spins his shell and rebounds Koopa Troopas (which go into their shells) onto enemies. Koopa Troopas are also some of the characters that are seen inhabiting Bowser's Castle.
Red and green Koopa Troopas return in Mario & Luigi: Bowser's Inside Story + Bowser Jr.'s Journey, where they additionally are found as enemies in the Bowser Jr.'s Journey mode. Both variants are weak to Dry Bones, pink Shy Guys and Spikes, while red Koopa Troopas are strong against all four Para-Biddybud variants. A green Koopa Troopa appears alongside a Scutlet to stop Bowser Jr. and the Koopalings from progressing, only to be defeated and freed from the brainwashing.

In Mario & Luigi: Dream Team, Koopa Troopas make a cameo appearance in Mario and Luigi's fight against Bowser Jr., as part of the audience alongside Shy Guys and Goombas. Kylie Koopa also makes a reappearance.

Koopa Troopas and their paper counterparts appear in Mario & Luigi: Paper Jam as enemies. They appear in Twinsy Tropics, and one is fought alongside a Paper Koopa Troopa, a Goomba and a Paper Goomba in Neo Bowser Castle as one of Bowser's last lines of defense. In battle, Koopa Troopas attack by going into its shell and flinging itself at Mario and Luigi in a circular manner, and if stomped will hit another enemy involved in the battle. They can also attack a single bro, its target being the one it is going in the opposite direction off, and must be countered with the hammer, at which point it will turn into an unshelled Koopa and can get counterattacked repeatedly. This marks the first time in the Mario & Luigi series where actual Koopa Troopas have appeared as enemies, in the previous installments, different species of Koopa Troopas appear: Mario & Luigi: Superstar Saga has Troopeas, Mario & Luigi: Partners in Time has Koopeleons, Mario & Luigi: Bowser's Inside Story has Dark Koopas (in the Dark Bowser battle), and  Mario & Luigi: Dream Team has Dreamy Paratroopas (in the Dreamy Bowser battle).

Blue Koopa Troopas (referred to as Koopas) are enemies in Mario Pinball Land. They are encountered in two areas of the Grassy Greens Stage. Hitting a Koopa Troopa causes it to temporarily fall backward on its shell, and hitting it again while it is in that position defeats it and awards 2,000 points. In both areas, defeating all the Koopa Troopas yields the player a Star.

Koopa Troopa is an opponent in Yakuman DS. He frequently melds/declares his tiles and he is a bit harder than Shy Guy and Goomba. His default rank is 16.

In Dance Dance Revolution: Mario Mix they are messing around with Lakitu's farm. Koopas can be stomped once, then another time to defeat them, if the player gets a perfect step. Once defeated, Lakitu gives Mario/Luigi the Key to the Truffle Towers.

Koopa Troopas, just called Koopas, also appear in Super Princess Peach, having the same roles from the Mario platformer games, but with the appearance of those in the Yoshi's Island games. There are four variants: Green Koopas, Mad Green Koopas, Red Koopas, and Glad Red Koopas. Paratroopas also appear with two Vibe variants.

Koopa Troopas appear as team players in Mario Superstar Baseball, along with Mario Super Sluggers. Only two colors are playable, both of them being green and red variants. In both games, the Koopa Troopas has good chemistry with Bowser, Koopa Paratroopa and Dry Bones.
In Mario Superstar Baseball, the green Koopa Troopa is a balanced type player, but its pitching is slightly weak. The red Koopa Troopa sacrifices some speed to enhance its batting skills. Koopas can also been seen as spectators at Mario Stadium, especially during the opening cinematic.
In Mario Super Sluggers, both Koopa Troopas have good batting and running skills. However, their pitching and fielding skills are weak. In addition to having good chemistry with Bowser, Koopa Paratroopa, and Dry Bones, they also have good chemistry with Bowser Jr. They are one of the few characters in the game to not have bad chemistry with any characters. In the cinematic that plays after defeating Bowser in Challenge Mode, a Koopa is briefly seen celebrating with the other characters before the fleet marches towards the entrance of the Baseball Kingdom, looking towards the sunset until the lights turn on for the night.

In the Mario Strikers series, Koopa Troopas are sidekick characters in Super Mario Strikers and Mario Strikers Charged. Depending on which team captain is selected, the colors of a Koopa may vary regarding its skin, shell, and uniform. In Mario Strikers Charged, a Koopa Troopa's skin color for all variants remains yellow, and their shells are overlapped with pieces of armor.

Koopa Troopas make various non-playable appearances in the Mario & Sonic series. During the opening sequence of the Wii version of Mario & Sonic at the Olympic Games, Koopa Troopas appear as cameramen during the Archery and High Jump events, even though they go unseen in the playable events themselves. Additionally, Koopa Troopas appear as spectators within the crowds throughout the game. A Koopa Troopa appears as a referee in Mario & Sonic at the Olympic Winter Games. In the Nintendo 3DS version of Mario & Sonic at the London 2012 Olympic Games, a pair of Koopa Troopas appear as one of the opponents in Events that require pairs of characters to be used, but the Koopa Troopas are never seen competing in the events.

Red Koopa Troopas reappear in Yoshi's Woolly World and its port. When a Red Koopa Paratroopa is hit with a yarn ball, it will turn into a Red Koopa Troopa.
8-bit Koopa Shells can sometimes be found in walls with strings. When Yoshi licks the strings, the Koopa Shell will come out and it can be used as a normal shell.

Koopa Troopas appear in green, red, and yellow varieties in Puzzle & Dragons: Super Mario Bros. Edition.

Green Koopa Troopas are Water-attribute enemies. In battle, in addition to attacking normally, they may occasionally use Green Shell to nullify Fire attribute damage for two turns. When defeated, it may randomly drop a Water Block of itself. As Water enemies, they take extra damage from Wood attribute attacks and less from Fire damage. 
As teammates, they have an HP rating of 3/6, an ATK rating of 1/6, and an RCV rating of 1/6. Their Green Shell Skill changes any Wood Orbs on the player's Orb field into Water Orbs, while their Awoken Skill Water Boost raises the ATK of any Water attribute teammates when the player clears a horizontal row of Water Orbs. Green Koopa Troopas use Fruits and Rare Fruits to raise their Skill Levels. The player can transform a Green Koopa Troopa into a Green Koopa Paratroopa using two P-Wings and can be transformed even further into a Big Green Koopa Paratroopa using five Super Mushrooms. 
One of Wendy O. Koopa's forms as a teammate has a Green Koopa Troopa accompanying her, and is named Wendy & Green Koopa Troopa.

Red Koopa Troopas are Fire-attribute enemies. In battle, they may occasionally use Red Shell to nullify Wood attribute damage for two turns. When defeated, it may randomly drop a Fire Block of itself. As Fire enemies, they take extra damage from Water attribute attacks and less from Wood damage. 
As teammates, they have an HP rating of 3/6, an ATK rating of 1/6, and an RCV rating of 0/6. Their Red Shell Skill changes any Water Orbs on the player's Orb field into Fire Orbs, while their Awoken Skill Fire Boost raises the ATK of any Fire attribute teammates when the player clears a horizontal row of Fire Orbs. Like Green Koopa Troopas, Red variants also use Fruits and Rare Fruits to raise their Skill Levels. The player can transform a Red Koopa Troopa into a Red Koopa Paratroopa using two P-Wings and can be transformed even further into a Dry Bones using six Boo Mushrooms. The player can also transform a Red Koopa Troopa into Red Koopa Troopa & Cheep Cheep by using three Cheep Cheep Coins.
One of Larry Koopa's forms as a teammate has a Red Koopa Troopa accompanying him, and is named Larry & Red Koopa Troopa. 

Yellow Koopa Troopas are Light-attribute enemies. In battle, they may occasionally use Yellow Shell to nullify Dark attribute damage for two turns. When defeated, it may randomly drop a Light Block of itself. As Light enemies, they take extra damage from Dark attribute attacks and normal damage from any other attribute. 
As teammates, they have an HP rating of 2/6, an ATK rating of 1/6, and an RCV rating of 1/6. Their Yellow Shell Skill changes any Fire Orbs on the player's Orb field into Light Orbs, while their Awoken Skill Light Boost raises the ATK of any Light attribute teammates when the player clears a horizontal row of Light Orbs. Like Green and Red Koopa Troopas, Yellow variants also use Fruits and Rare Fruits to raise their Skill Levels. The player can transform a Yellow Koopa Troopa into a Yellow Koopa Paratroopa using two P-Wings and can be transformed even further into a Big Yellow Koopa Paratroopa using five Super Mushrooms. 
One of Roy Koopa's forms as a teammate has a Yellow Koopa Troopa accompanying him, and is named Roy & Yellow Koopa Troopa.

Koopa Troopas appear in Skylanders: SuperChargers as part of Bowser's moveset, exclusively on the Nintendo console versions of the game.

In the Super Mario Mash-up in Minecraft, Sheep are replaced by green Koopa Troopas. A Koopa Troopa also appears as a playable skin, meaning that both bipedal and quadrupedal Koopa Troopas exist in this game. Additionally, the later Sea Turtle mobs are replaced with green Koopa Troopas with peach-colored skin resembling the ones from Super Mario All-Stars. Their shells also have more plates, and as such may actually be intended to be Shellcreepers.

Koopa Troopas are playable side characters in Mario Sports Superstars. They are available in soccer and baseball, classified as balance types. The baseball mode features green, red, blue, and yellow colors for Koopas, more than the Mario Baseball series. Soccer, however, only has green and red varieties.
Koopa Troopas are also among the basic enemies encountered in the Road to Superstar game mode. 

Koopa Troopas are enemies in Yoshi's Crafted World. They appear only in Many Fish in the Sea. The green and red types retain their respective behaviors from before.

Koopa Troopas make their debut in the Dr. Mario series as assistants in Dr. Mario World. Their stage mode skill grants 80 bonus points (50 prior to version 2.3.0) for each remaining capsule after completing a stage. At higher levels, the number of bonus points granted per capsule increases by 80 points per level (i.e., 160, 240, 320, and 400 points for level 2 to level 5; compare with 70, 100, 150, and 200 points prior to version 2.3.0). Their versus mode skill grants a 4%, 8%, 12%, 16%, or 20% chance (depending on the current level) that the attack meter will instantly fill when the opponent attacks, essentially counterattacking the opponent. A Clinic Event featured Koopa Troopa as a patient during season 4.
A Koopa Troopa also appears as a playable character under the name Dr. Koopa Troopa. Their skill effect is the same as Dr. Wendy's; in Stage mode, a certain amount of Brick Blocks are broken, while in Versus mode viruses are covered inside Brick Blocks. The amount of Brick Blocks or viruses targeted are fewer than Dr. Wendy's skill; Dr. Koopa Troopa's skill destroys 4 blocks (3 prior to version 2.2.0) as opposed to Dr. Wendy's 10, while in Versus mode at maximum level, Dr. Koopa Troopa turns up to 5 viruses into blocks as opposed to Dr. Wendy's maximum of 10. To compensate, their skill charges faster compared to Dr. Wendy's.

Koopa Troopas appear in The Super Mario Bros. Movie, where they are the main troops in Bowser's army. They resemble the same look in the games, but they have helmets that look like their main armor for combat. They use spears, knives, and scepters for weapons.
The Koopa Troopas are first seen when they invade the Snow Kingdom to steal the Super Star so Bowser can take over the world. In their second appearance, they are having a rave party with heavy metal music with the rest of the Koopa Troop. After Bowser declares that he will marry Princess Peach, when one of the Koopa Troopas asks him "what if she says no," Bowser incinerates him completely into a Dry Bones. Later in the film, when the Koopa General reports to Bowser that Mario, Peach, and Toad are taking a shortcut through Rainbow Road with the Kong Army, Bowser assembles an army of Koopa Troopas, led by the Koopa General, to ambush them on the way. The Koopas hold off the Kongs while the Koopa General chases Mario and eventually capture the Kongs and bring them in as prisoners for the sacrifice at Bowser and Peach's wedding. While some of the Koopa Troopas, accompanied by Goombas and other minions, raid the kingdom, most of them arrive at the wedding.
The Koopa Troop is defeated by the Mario Bros. and it is unknown what became of them after Bowser's defeat.

In Zoda's Revenge: StarTropics II, the person holding the pizza which the player must deliver to Cleopatra rides a Koopa Troopa.
In the Wii U version of Scribblenauts Unlimited, Koopa Troopas (in red and green) can be spawned.
In Luigi's Mansion: Dark Moon, a Boo named Boopa Troopa is found in Treacherous Mansion's E-2: Double Trouble.

Koopa Troopas were originally written for the 1993 live-action Super Mario Bros. film when it was going to be a fantasy movie but were cut when it was changed into a science-fiction film. An early script described them as "fierce-looking soldiers, half-human, with turtle-like armored shells on their backs, reptilian facial features, and molded armor suits," and have "leathery skin, with turtle-like eyes and mouth." They were also referred to as "Koopa Troopers" in this script. Despite being absent from the film, early production artwork of the film version of Goombas had them labeled with the name "Koopa's Troopas".

Koopa Troopas are anthropomorphic turtles with removable shells. In general, they have basic appearances compared to other Koopa species. They have elliptical beady eyes, large beak-like noses, short limbs, and large heads. Their hands have four pointed/triangular-shaped digits (excluding artwork from Super Mario World 2: Yoshi's Island and its remake, and the Paper Mario series where in-game their fingers are not) and have three pointed toes on their flat-soled feet, which, unlike other Koopa species, have no pads at all. In earlier games, Koopa Troopas were quadrupedal (walking on four legs), had flatter noses, and detailed leg joints. Starting from Super Mario World onwards, they now stand on two legs, have more rounded noses, and wear shoes with beige soles that often match the color of the shells they wear (in the Super Mario Galaxy series, however, they revert back to walking on four legs, having four toes on their back legs and being barefooted). Having beaks, Koopa Troopas have no teeth compared to other species, but may be drawn with them for expression purposes (although their conceptual ancestor, Shellcreepers, have them).
Koopa Troopas generally have yellow skin, but in earlier games, they had orange skin. Some Koopa Troopas can have olive green, peach and even cyan skin. In Super Mario Strikers, the color of their skin changes depending on which team they are on: salmon for Mario's, chalky yellow for Luigi's, peach for Waluigi's, and orange for Daisy's. In Super Mario Party, Red Koopa Troopas' skin have an orange tint from the playable Koopa Troopa. 

A Koopa Troopa's shell consists of a carapace with colored, hexagon-shaped scutes in a pattern on the top, with smaller, triangular ones at the edges, with dark flesh underneath that appear as "grooves"; a beige colored plaston with several "ribs" on its surface and six holes on it where the Koopa Troopa's head, arms, legs, and tail emerge from; all joined by a white bridge that follows along the perimeter of the shell and rises at the spots where the Koopa Troopa's head and tail are. The most common color for a Koopa Troopa's shell is green, with red being the second. However, there have also been less common colors such as blue, yellow, light-blue, light-green, dark-green, orange, purple, black, and, on rare occasions, gold. Despite having large heads, Koopa Troopas can pull them into their shells with little effort. In Puzzle & Dragons: Super Mario Bros. Edition, Mario Kart 8, and Mario Kart Tour, a Koopa Troopa can withdraw into its shell and pop back out in mid-air. Underneath their shells, they wear white undershirts (in Super Mario 64 and its remake Super Mario 64 DS, they also wear pink or blue shorts, respectively) and have round bodies.
From Super Mario 64 onwards, Koopa Troopas have been given voices created electronically, starting with whooping sounds (which were also shared with Goombas, Grand Goombas and the Big Bob-omb, with varying speeds, until the sounds were exclusive to Koopa Troopas in later games), then other noises such as wheezing, clucking, and gurgling. In Mario Kart 8, they were also given high-pitched whistling sounds whenever performing an antigravity trick or placing first. One of Koopa Troopa's sound effects is derived from the stock sound HUMAN, YELL - YELL: FEMALE from Voice Spectral Vol. 1 - Track 02.

In Illumination's The Super Mario Bros. Movie, Koopa Troopas are slimmer than before, have teeth, have perfectly round heads elevated above their brown eyes, wear socks and usually have helmets. They are also shown to be wearing accessories, to distinguish from each other; for example, one Koopa Troopa wears spiked shoulder pads and an eyepatch, and another wears a Spiny Shell as its shell and helmet. In addition, unlike their previous appearances, they wield various weapons such as spears and hammers.
Green Koopa Troopas are specifically given an association with water in games such as Mario Power Tennis and Puzzles and Dragons: Super Mario Bros. Edition, since their Offensive and Defensive Power Shots in the former game involve water, and in the latter game their attribute is Water. In Puzzles and Dragons: Super Mario Bros. Edition, Red Koopa Troopas have fire as their attribute, while Yellow Koopa Troopas have light.

The following is all of the known colors of Koopa Troopas and their first appearances: