The Koopa King (or Bowser's Kart) is a kart in the Mario Kart series. It is named after Bowser's mantle, "Koopa King", and is designed in his likeness, featuring two horns around the front end, headlamps for eyes and a bumper resembling a jaw with sharp teeth.

The Koopa King first appears in Mario Kart: Double Dash!! as a heavyweight kart serving as the signature kart of Bowser. Very large in size, it is one of two six-wheelers in the game, the other being the Barrel Train. According to the in-game stats, the Koopa King is the fastest kart in the game, as well as having the weakest acceleration, making it a bad pick for simple courses such as Baby Park. It is also one of the heaviest karts in the game; its weight is tied with the Piranha Pipes and Boo Pipes. The Koopa King is one of the only four karts with a unique engine sound, the other three being the DK Jumbo, Barrel Train, and Parade Kart.
In terms of its actual stats, the Koopa King does offer the highest top speed and the lowest acceleration of all the karts in the game, but it is also tied with the Bullet Blaster for losing the most speed whenever it goes off-road.

The Koopa King returns in Mario Kart Tour as part of the 2020 Exploration Tour, where it is classified as a High-End kart. It provides longer-lasting Rocket Start boosts and awards extra points for performing a Rocket Start.
Unlike its Mario Kart: Double Dash!! appearance, the horns and lips are more golden-colored, it only has four wheels as opposed to six (like the Barrel Train), the sharp spikes on said wheels were made flatter, the tires are more brownish in color, it lacks the second handlebar, the remaining handlebar has been bent down over the platform, making it no longer usable, and the original Bowser emblem on the hood and sides have been replaced by the character's respective emblem.
The game introduces three variants of this kart, all having the High-End classification as well: a black and gold variant called the Gilded King, a red, white, and green variant called the Holiday King, and a silver variant called the Silver King.
The Koopa King is available in regular tour pipes, including the All-Clear Pipe. However, it is not in the Daily Selects set. The following table lists the kart's availability by tour.