Koopatrols (named Armored Koopas in Mario Pinball Land) are elite soldiers of the Koopa Troop that made their debut in Paper Mario, and have appeared in two of its sequels, Paper Mario: The Thousand-Year Door and Super Paper Mario. Their name is a portmanteau of "Koopa" and "Patrol". These warriors are the high-ranking guards of Bowser's Castle, and most Koopa Troopas dream of becoming Koopatrols. They appear in physique similar to Koopa Troopas, but they wear intimidating spiky armor, including spiked helmets which protect them from being jumped on. However, they will flip over (or retreat into their shells in Super Paper Mario) like normal Koopas if a badge or Pixl that allows jumping on spiked enemies is used on them.
They are one of the few original Paper Mario series characters to reappear in other Super Mario games, along with Tweesters, Whacka, Goomboss, Frost Piranhas, and the Star Spirits.

During the events of Paper Mario, Koopatrols patrolled Bowser's Castle and Peach's Castle after it was taken into the sky by Bowser. During chapter intermissions where the player takes control of Princess Peach, they can be found patrolling most rooms of the castle. If Princess Peach is caught in the line of sight of a Koopatrol, she will be escorted back to her room. Later on in the game, two Koopatrols named Spiky John and Spiky Tom participate in a Hammer Bro by the name of Mr. Hammer's quiz show, the 64th Trivia Quiz-Off. If Peach wins the quiz show, she wins a Jammin' Jelly. Regardless if she wins or not, however, she will be rewarded the Sneaky Parasol as a consolation prize. During Chapter 8, Koopatrols appear as enemies in Bowser's Castle. Two Koopatrols can also be fought in Shy Guy's Toy Box if Princess Peach tells Bowser that Mario fears them, where they guard the treasure chest containing the Dictionary.
In battle, Koopatrols have an unusually high defense stat of 3, but are vulnerable to being flipped over like an ordinary Koopa Troopa by either a ground-shaking move like Quake Hammer or by a jump, though Mario must have the Spike Shield badge equipped to jump on them, due to the spikes on their helmets. While flipped over, a Koopatrol's defense is reduced to 0. They are capable of standing up immediately on their turn, though they cannot attack on the same turn. Koopatrols mainly attack by sliding into Mario with their shells, similar to Kooper's Shell Toss. This move deals 4 damage, and is also used by Koopatrols as a First Strike in the overworld. They can also use a faster, stronger shell attack that deals 10 damage, though they must use an additional turn to become Charged before using this move, allowing it to be evaded with moves such as Bow's Outta Sight. While Charged, a Koopatrol spins in its shell, preventing it from being flipped over and granting immunity to most status conditions. Koopatrols can also perform a dance that calls in another Koopatrol as a reinforcement.

Koopatrols are found in Rogueport Underground in Paper Mario: The Thousand-Year Door after Mario and his partners clear Chapter 5. They also appear as friendly characters in Bowser's Castle at the end of Chapter 1. A stronger type of Koopatrol, the Dark Koopatrol, is also found in this game in Glitzville and the Pit of 100 Trials. Due to the game's different graphic style, they no longer have visible legs, with their feet and body being detached.
In battle, Koopatrols are somewhat weaker than in Paper Mario, but they have received several new moves. Their shell attack now hits both Mario and his partner, dealing 4 damage to each, similar to the Power Shell move. However, they sometimes charge into the front character alone with their helmet spike instead, which also deals 4 damage. Their charge-up move charges their attack power by only 2, and is followed by either their shell attack or helmet spike charge attack instead of a unique attack. Koopatrols are no longer immune to status conditions nor being flipped over while Charged, and they struggle for one turn before standing up when flipped over, instead of being able to stand up immediately. Koopatrols now summon additional Koopatrols as reinforcements by whistling and waving in place of their previous dance. Finally, Koopatrols are also able to retreat into their shells, becoming mostly invincible and immune to all status conditions in place of attacking, but they can still be flipped over by the usual methods while in this state, rendering them vulnerable and helpless.
While Koopatrols slide toward Mario in their shells as a First Strike in the overworld, they actually use their helmet spike charge attack instead once the battle begins, if it hits.

Koopatrols appear again in Super Paper Mario, where they, along with most of the Koopa Troop were brainwashed by Nastasia into working for Count Bleck, and served as guards in Castle Bleck. They can also be found in Rooms 19 and 86 of the Flipside Pit of 100 Trials.
Koopatrols attack by ramming into the player. Their attacks are sudden and difficult to anticipate. There is another kind of Koopatrol that lives in the Flopside Pit of 100 Trials called a Dark Koopatrol. It is the strongest Koopa enemy in the whole game.

Armored Koopas are enemies in Mario Pinball Land. They are encountered in Bowser's Castle only. Armored Koopas can be defeated by being bashed into a wall, which crushes them.

Koopatrols make a cameo appearance in Super Princess Peach as statues on the Bowser's Villa map. At the left side of the map, a statue can be seen holding a sword, while at the right side, there is a statue holding a spear. Every once in a while, two red pupils will appear in the statue's eyes, observe its surroundings, then vanish.