"Kootie Pie Rocks" is the sixteenth episode of The Adventures of Super Mario Bros. 3. It aired alongside another episode entitled "Do the Koopa."
In this episode, Milli Vanilli guest stars, voicing themselves, making it the only episode in the series where a guest star appears. It is also notable for being the only episode in the series without a title card, instead opening with a shot of some clouds. It was initially going to be named "Strawberry, Chocolate, or Vanilli?"

One evening in the Mushroom Kingdom, Cheatsy Koopa is climbing up the side of the Mushroom Castle, and peeks in through a window, hoping to spy on whatever Mario and Luigi are up to. Looking in, Cheatsy sees that Toad is helping Mario fit into a tuxedo, when Luigi questions why they have to wear dumb "penguin suits". Toad explains that Princess Toadstool will be all dressed up herself, as Toad got word she is attending a concert in the real world, so being a princess it clearly must be some kind of symphony. The Princess makes her grand appearance, but they are shocked to see that she is actually dressed to go to a pop concert, wearing a jersey with "Milli Vanilli", whom she remarks is her favorite band, printed on the front, and torn jeans. Toad comments that he does not understand the real world's "weird customs", and Princess Toadstool points out that everyone at the concert will be too busy looking at Milli Vanilli to notice them. With the knowledge of Princess Toadstool going to a Milli Vanilli concert, Cheatsy retreats back to Kastle Koopa, wondering what Kootie Pie will think.
Upon Cheatsy's return to Kastle Koopa, Kootie Pie is throwing a temper tantrum because Princess Toadstool can go to a pop concert in the real world, while she cannot. After throwing some random objects at King Koopa, Kootie Pie screams until he gives in, and even offers to let her keep Milli Vanilli as well, which he mispronounces as "Silly-the-Willies" and "Filli Banilli". When Kootie Pie runs off to change into a dress, Cheatsy comments that he cannot wait to see Koopa pull off his plan, only for Koopa to order him to fire up the Doomship, and because he instigated all this, he is coming along to see that the kidnapping succeeds.

At a stadium in New York City, which has been set up for the concert, Milli Vanilli run onto the stage, introduce themselves, and toss a rose into the audience, which Princess Toadstool catches. Mario and Luigi cannot stand the screaming audience, and cover their ears. Milli Vanilli then begin to sing "Blame it on the Rain". After a while, the Doomship flies over to the stadium, and Koopa fires a beam at part of the stage, lifting Milli Vanilli up into the air with it. Soon, Milli Vanilli disappears, and Koopa laughs as the Doomship warps away. Mario figures even in the real world that Koopa causes trouble, and that they need to get back into the pipe headed for Dark Land, specifically Kastle Koopa. Princess Toadstool fears Milli Vanilli is in great danger as Koopa's hostages.

At Kastle Koopa, Milli Vanilli is reluctantly introduced to Kootie Pie. She develops a crush on Rob, and Kootie Pie kisses him several times, which disgusts him. Rob and Fab try to leave, but Kootie Pie tells them that they cannot, and demands for them to perform a private concert just for her right away. When they refuse, Kootie Pie pulls out her magic wand, and threatens to transform Rob and Fab into a pair of accountants, to which the two laugh "Accountants? That is a good one!" Annoyed, Kootie Pie makes good on her threat and transforms Milli Vanilli into accountants, to which they shout out, "No! We're nerds! We're dweebs!" Fab tells Kootie Pie to turn them back to normal, but Kootie Pie refuses and tells them that they are stuck in Dark Land forever. Rob and Fab try to escape, but two Sledge Brothers block the exit.

Kootie Pie threatens to turn Rob and Fab into beetles if they refuse to perform a concert, and Fab is fine with that, saying "Who wants to be a band from the 60s"? Kootie Pie then considers turning them into Ptooies, but Rob has never heard of a band by that name. Fab reasons with Kootie Pie that no matter what her transformations, they are unable to perform a concert with just vocals, they need a backup band, so Kootie Pie remarks that they have to stay as accountants until they can find one. 
Princess Toadstool, who is spying into Castle Koopa through a window with her friends, explains that she will never hear her favorite music again if they cannot get Milli Vanilli back to normal. Mario reassures Princess Toadstool that they will save Milli Vanilli from Kootie Pie, but Luigi questions how. Mario then remembers Fab's remark about needing a backup band, so he decides that they should pose as one. 

Dressed as a rock band, Mario and his friends enter Castle Koopa through a Warp Pipe, and head for the throne room, while Kootie Pie throws a temper tantrum about how Koopa forgot to bring her a backup band in addition to Milli Vanilli. Toad worries that they have no musical ability, but Luigi says this is the best they can do on short notice, their sole mission to rescue Milli Vanilli. After Mario's group arrives, Fab recognizes Princess Toadstool from the audience at their concert back in New York City, and she whispers that they are here to save them. Mario introduces his group to Kootie Pie as the traveling backup band "Backups 'R' We", whom Kootie Pie is thrilled to see have arrived so suddenly. Princess Toadstool asks who will sing while their group plays "...these two accountants?", and tricks Kootie Pie into using her magic wand to revert Milli Vanilli to normal.

With Rob and Fab restored, Rob tells Mario to play "Girl You Know It's True". However, Mario and his friends cannot play their instruments at all, and everyone but Kootie Pie cannot stand the music. Koopa comes in to complain, but Toad's drumstick goes flying into his mouth, and he flees from the bad music, as do some Sledge Brothers and Goombas. Still playing, Mario and his friends lead Milli Vanilli out of the room, and head for the Warp Pipe. Kootie Pie, upset over the loss of her concert, runs to tell Koopa, and threatens to scream if he does not bring it back. Koopa, who is wearing earmuffs, refuses to do so. Putting his foot down, he prefers her screaming than that racket. Kootie Pie claims that she will just bring them back herself, but Koopa grabs her, and threatens to throw her in the dungeon unless she promises to forget about the band, to which Kootie Pie agrees. 
Back at their real concert, Milli Vanilli are back on stage, and announce that their next song is dedicated to a real princess, as they start to play "Girl You Know It's True". Watching from backstage, Princess Toadstool starts looking at them dreamily. Mario and Luigi, who are now in their usual clothes, also watch the concert, albeit more grounded. Mario makes a comment that if they keep up their band they can become as big as Milli Vanilli. Toad and Luigi are not too keen on that, and when Mario asks the Princess for her input, she makes no remark, simply watching dreamily as her favorite group plays.

"Kootie Pie Rocks" was aired before Frank Farian, the real-world producer for Milli Vanilli, revealed in November of 1990 that frontmen Fab Morvan and Rob Pilatus had not actually contributed to the band's studio recordings and simply lip-synced to vocals recorded by session singers John Davis, Brad Howell, and Charles Shaw. As a result, in later airings, the songs were replaced with the "Mega Move" instrumental, and all references to Milli Vanilli's songs were removed. However, the original version of the episode is used in the Greek, Italian, Spanish, Swedish, and Brazilian Portuguese dubs, with the Brazilian Portuguese dub even translating the songs. Also at the end of the episode, when Milli Vanilli sings for the princess, the part when Mario talks about starting their own band was cut.