Lady Bow is the leader of the Boos of Boo's Mansion and a party member in Paper Mario. She is aided by her butler, Bootler. She is very strong-headed and a tad snooty due to her princess-like status in life, but is also kind-hearted in wanting to aid Mario so that he can save Peach and the world's wishes. Her name is derived from the word "bow," which, depending on pronunciation, may mean "ribbon" (referring to the bows she wears) or can refer to a type of gesture often done in reverence to royalty. It is also likely that her name is a pun on "Boo".
Bow and Parakarry are the only partners in Paper Mario that have appeared in both of the first two Paper Mario games. Vivian from Paper Mario: The Thousand-Year Door, Dottie from Super Paper Mario, and the Lamination Suit from Paper Mario: The Origami King similarly allow the player to avoid detection from enemies.

In Paper Mario, seeing too much suffering caused by the Boo-eating monster Tubba Blubba, Lady Bow decides to have Mario defeat him. She has ordered the Boos to capture Skolar, the Star Spirit Mario is going to save, and uses it as leverage to get Mario to eliminate Tubba Blubba. Bow joins Mario after he solves the puzzles in Boo's Mansion. The main reason that she joins him at first is that Mario needs her help to defeat Tubba Blubba. After Tubba Blubba was defeated Bow remained true to her word and gave Skolar to Mario. She then decided to accompany Mario ("like it or not") for the rest of his adventure.
In Chapter 4, Lady Bow is referred to in a scribble by a Boo from Boo's Mansion, who is crazy about her. At the end of the game, a Boo from Boo's Mansion, maybe the one who posted the scribble, came to the party "to see Lady Bow dressed up in all her finery". He also thinks that Bow is prettier than Princess Peach. She is mistakenly referred to as "Lady Boo" when Mario reads the back of the notice board in Toad Town after the defeat of Bowser.
Lady Bow receives two letters at the Toad Town Post Office: one from Bootler wishing her safe, and the other one from the Boos at Gusty Gulch, thanking her for rescuing them from Tubba Blubba.
In battle, Bow can slap enemies with both her hand and, when ultra ranked, her fan. She can also protect Mario from attacks with her Outta Sight attack and, at super rank, can also try to scare away enemies with an ability called Spook. If she successfully blocks an attack, she covers her eyes much like other Boos. She is the only partner that is incapable of doing any damage to Bowser in his powered-up form. The same applies to the Crystal King, as well as the sixth battle with Jr. Troopa. Outside of battle, she can turn Mario invisible, protecting him from enemy attacks and hazardous obstacles. However, Mario cannot move while in this state. This ability must be used to gain access to Shy Guy's Toy Box.
Duplighosts and Lee can transform into Bow along with Mario's other partners, where her name appears as "Bow???"

Lady Bow and Bootler make a cameo appearance in Paper Mario: The Thousand-Year Door. They are taking a vacation at Poshley Heights after Mario defeats the Shadow Queen. She is quite glad to see Mario again. Earlier in Mario's adventure, a young Toad from Petalburg called Bow "the cutest Boo OF ALL TIME!!!"

In Super Paper Mario, Lady Bow makes three cameos. Her first is at the beginning of the game; she, along with all the other partners from the first Paper Mario appeared in a photograph at Mario's house. Bow's second cameo was at Fort Francis. There is a poster of her and Bootler in one of Francis' secret, password-activated rooms. Lastly, she appears as a Catch Card in the sixtieth floor of the Flopside Pit of 100 Trials within a treasure chest. Like all other partners, with the exception of Sushie, she has unused sprite data.

In Super Smash Bros. Brawl she appears as a Sticker that raises magic attack power by eight. It can be used only by Peach and Zelda.

These are Lady Bow's attacks and stats:

Note that the Action Command has to be executed perfectly to get the indicated amount of hits on the smacks.