Lake Shore Paradise is the sixth level of World 4 in Super Mario World 2: Yoshi's Island and its Game Boy Advance release Yoshi's Island: Super Mario Advance 3. This level is located in a lake, where various Flopsy Fish jump out of the water to try and attack Yoshi. Here, there are enemies such as Koopa Troopas, Para-Koopas and Shy-Guys. This level's playable Yoshi is the brown Yoshi.
The level icon shows a close up of a Flopsy Fish in the water. In the international releases of Super Mario World 2: Yoshi's Island, Flopsy Fish's fins are raised slightly higher, and a few of the light blue pixels surrounding its fins were also changed.

The player starts out next to an area with some stairs that lead down, at the bottom if the player Ground Pounds underwater and goes to the left they will find a Koopa Shell and a tulip, which will give out some Stars, when the Shell is thrown inside. On the right is a large amount of enemies and some Winged Clouds that create a bridge over the water. The player will then have to cross various platforms that are floating above the water, if the player goes to the very right of this section and drops down, they will find a crate that has a key inside of it. The key can be used to play Popping Balloons, the door to this minigame is located at the top of the section. The player must then go through a door, that is also on the right of the section to progress.
The next area is inside a cave, and is right next to the Middle Ring, before some sections with some platforms above water, that lead to a door. This leads to a small room that only has a Flopsy Fish and another door, which leads back inside the previous room, but past a wall. This section has some Woozy Guys and some Clawdaddies. If the player goes to the right of the section, they will go into a room with a spinning wheel, that can be used to navigate some spikes and get some Red Coins. Going up will lead to a door and the next area. The next area is outside and has various enemies and at the end of it is the Goal Ring.