Lakilester (self-nicknamed Michael and Spike) is a Lakitu who is the eighth and last party member to join Mario's party in Paper Mario. Lakilester is a portmanteau of "Lakitu" and "Lester", and is probably a pun on "lackluster". Lakilester joins Mario's team after he is defeated by the plumber, as well as abandoning the antagonists to do so. This trait is later carried on with Vivian from the sequel, Paper Mario: The Thousand-Year Door. His appearance is no different than an ordinary Lakitu, besides sporting a pair of shades and having more hair than an ordinary Lakitu's 3-lined hair. Lakilester's pupils can be seen when he is damaged in battle and unable to attack. Lakilester also has a habit of saying "man" to try and sound "cool". 
Carrie from Super Paper Mario has a similar ability to Lakilester of being able to traverse over certain hazards and increasing movement speed.

Lakilester is a supporting character in Paper Mario. In Flower Fields, after talking with the sun in his tower, Mario and his team find a Lakitu on the way to Cloudy Climb. He introduces himself by his nickname Michael, then Spike, then attacks. After he is defeated, a female Lakitu named Lakilulu comes and asks Mario not to finish Lakilester. Lakilester is annoyed and asks Lakilulu to call him Spike because it is his new name. Lakilester tells Mario that he is working for Huff N. Puff and asks him why he is trying to save the world. No matter what he answers, Lakilester thinks Mario is cool and joins the party. Lakilester wants to be stronger for his girlfriend, which is similar to Koops in the sequel. By using his field ability, Mario can hop on his cloud and move much quicker. He can also hover over certain surfaces, such as spikes and lava, without getting hurt. Though it is entirely possible to use Lakilester to travel over lava, he visibly struggles while doing so. He moves considerably slower and his cloud's expression changes to an angry frown. However, because Lakilester floats low over the ground, he cannot be used to cross gaps like Parakarry can.
Lakilester receives two letters at the Toad Town Post Office: one from Lakilulu and the other from Flight.
Duplighosts and Lee can transform into Lakilester along with Mario's other partners, where his name appears as "Lakilester???"

In Super Paper Mario, Lakilester appears as a Catch Card found on the ninetieth floor of the Flopside Pit of 100 Trials. Lakilester also has unused sprite data for the game.

Lakilester makes an appearance also in volume 26 of Super Mario-kun. As in the game, he initially attacks Mario. His moves include throwing a Spiny Surge while his cloud can use Hurricane. Mario and his partners eventually fight back by stacking each other and having Mario using this stack to reach Lakilester. Lakilester then joins Mario to help him on his quest.

Originally, Lakilester was going to make an appearance in Paper Mario: The Thousand-Year Door, but he was removed along with most of the other partners from the original Paper Mario.

Values in bold are for perfectly executed action commands.