Lakitus are enemies introduced in Super Mario Bros. They are Koopas that ride clouds through the skies, most often dropping Spiny Eggs down at targets. Some spinoff games include a Lakitu as a referee, including the Mario Kart, Mario Tennis, and Mario Baseball games. The instruction booklets of several spinoff games refer to the Lakitu character in singular form, suggesting against the idea of those games having several Lakitus.

In Super Mario Bros., Lakitus are first encountered in World 4-1. They move on a horizontal axis on the upper part of the screen, hiding in their clouds for about one second before throwing down Spiny's eggs, which become Spinies upon landing. Only one Lakitu is ever encountered at a time. Even if it is defeated from either being stomped or being hit by a fireball, worth 800 and 200 points, respectively, it spawns after several seconds. Lakitu retreats offscreen whenever the player character is about to activate the flagpole, though one in World 8-2 stops its pursuit early on. A Lakitu is behind the disguise of the fake Bowser in World 5-4.

Lakitus appear in Super Mario Bros.: The Lost Levels. They are first encountered in World 4-1. Lakitus retain the same behavior as before, but they were recolored slightly darker. Lakitus appear in some of the underwater levels, like in World 9, and in the original Family Computer Disk System release only, the outline of Lakitu's cloud is colored gray like the other green enemies encountered there.

Lakitus appear in Super Mario Bros. 3. They are first encountered in World 3-4. Some Lakitus throw green eggs that roll upon hitting the ground. In the remake Super Mario Advance 4: Super Mario Bros. 3, a different-looking Lakitu pulls the player character upward if the player selects an option to scan an e-Reader card; this is not possible in the European version, which removes all e-Reader compatibility, or in the digital re-releases, since every e-Reader level is available in them.

Lakitus appear in Super Mario World and its reissue. They follow the player character directly, unlike before, and use a cloud that the player character can ridee temporarily if the Lakitu is defeated by projectiles. This is the only game of the Super Mario series with cloud-riding Lakitus with red shells instead of green, though the remake has an oddity where if Yoshi spits out a Lakitu from a Pipe while having Luigi, the Lakitu is depicted with a green shell. The game introduces three variations: Fishin' Lakitus, Fishin' Boo, and Lakitu in a Pipe. Lakitus in a Pipe emerge similarly to Piranha Plants, which includes not emerging if the player character is standing on their pipe. A Lakitu in a Pipe throws only one Spiny Egg before retreating. Lakitus in a Pipe are defeated using the methods as Lakitus, but with the addition of being eaten by Yoshi.

Lakitus appear in Super Mario 64 and its remake. They are encountered in Tiny-Huge Island and Rainbow Ride, as well as one in Goomboss Battle and two in Sunshine Isles in the remake only. The first Lakitus encountered are the friendly Lakitu Bros., who represent the game camera, provide occasional hints, and film the entirety of the journey. The enemy Lakitus float around in wide, fast circles, and they start attacking Mario by dropping Spiny bombs upon sighting him. A Lakitu releases five coins when defeated. In the remake, Lakitus follow the player character more steadily and travel in a small circle slowly if they do not see them. If a Lakitu is swallowed and spit out by Yoshi before becoming an egg, it moves constantly in the direction it was spit, but unlike most enemies, the Lakitu manages to recover.

Lakitus appear in New Super Mario Bros. They are encountered in World 2-2 and World 6-A. A Lakitu named Lakithunder is the boss of World 7, and it attacks by striking bolts of lightning from a lightning cloud. A Lakitu is worth 1,000 points when defeated. If the Lakitu is defeated by a projectile, the player character can ride its cloud temporarily, like in Super Mario World.

Lakitus appear in New Super Mario Bros. Wii. They received a larger-eyed design differing from their design introduced in Mario Party 4. They are encountered in World 2-5, World 4-5, and the Enemy Courses of World 7. A Lakitu has its cloud left behind, even if defeated by a stomp. There are Lakitus that throw coins, and they are spawned from square clouds.

Lakitus appear in Super Mario Galaxy 2. They are encountered in Yoshi Star Galaxy and Starshine Beach Galaxy only. A Lakitu named King Lakitu is the boss of the former galaxy. A Lakitu can be knocked out of its cloud by Yoshi, leaving it in a temporary vulnerable state, if either a Spiny Egg is spit at it or the cloud is eaten. A Lakitu can be stunned if hit by a Star Bit, but for a shorter duration than most enemies. While on the ground, Lakitu is defeated if the player character touches it. Lakitu comes back shortly after being defeated, and if it is on the ground, Lakitu creates a replacement cloud if it is not defeated on time. Lakitus release coins or Star Bits the first three times they are defeated.

Lakitus appear in New Super Mario Bros. 2. They are similar as before. Going through a Gold Ring changes them into Gold Lakitus, which throw coins instead of Spiny Eggs; they become Lakitus again once the effects of the ring expire.

Lakitus appear in New Super Mario Bros. U, New Super Luigi U, and their port. They are encountered in Blooming Lakitus, Seesaw Shrooms, and Lakitu! Lakitu! Lakitu! in New Super Mario Bros. U and in Spinning Sandstones, Beanstalk Jungle, and Cloudy Capers in New Super Luigi U. They are unchanged from New Super Mario Bros. Wii. There are Lakitus that throw Piranha Pods in Blooming Lakitus only.

Lakitus are course elements in Super Mario Maker, Super Mario Maker for Nintendo 3DS, and Super Mario Maker 2. They are available in every style except Super Mario 3D World in the latter game. A Lakitu can lose its cloud in any of the styles, regardless of how it was defeated. Lakitus fly up and down if wings are placed on them. Lakitus can have a different enemy or object placed on it to throw it instead, and shaking the enemy removes the Lakitu from its cloud.

Lakitu appear in Super Mario Run. They behave broadly similarly to their appearance in Super Mario Bros. Lakitu flies higher briefly if the player character enters the top portion of the screen. If the player gets too close after that, they can fly slightly higher than that to stay safe, though lower back to the normal flee range once the player leaves. They do not leave behind a Lakitu's Cloud when defeated. Lakitu in World Tour never leave, while Lakitu in Toad Rally will leave at the end of a segment and Lakitu in Remix 10 will leave toward the end of a course. 
The Lakitus in Big Spiny Blitz only throw a single coin per interval, which is affected by gravity. The Lakitus in Lakitu's Revenge throw both Spiny Eggs and coins, but always throws Spiny Eggs far to the right of the player.

Lakitus are non-playable characters in Super Mario Odyssey. One appears in the Desert Oasis of the Sand Kingdom; the Courtyard of the Lake Kingdom; the southeastern area of Snow Kingdom; and Beneath the Keep of Bowser's Kingdom. They can be captured, but mainly after every main story Power Moons has been collected for a kingdom, due to conditions like how the Lakitu of the Sand Kingdom is frozen beforehand. Every captured Lakitu can float around in a small area. It can fish for Cheep Cheeps in the water (or poison in Bowser's Kingdom), most giving coins when reeled in. The biggest Cheep Cheep of the Lake Kingdom and Snow Kingdom gives a Power Moon instead. The captured Lakitu in the Sand Kingdom can fish Captain Toad out of sand and for Poochy in Bowser's Kingdom, each for a Power Moon. A Lakitu which is not captured sings about fishing, but complains if an enemy is nearby.

Lakitus appear in Super Mario Bros. Wonder. They use their design from Mario Party 4, like in New Super Mario Bros. A trio of Lakitus in one cloud appears in Cruising with Linking Lifts, during its Wonder Effect, and Shining Falls Special Triple Threat Deluge; they throw coins, Wonder Tokens, and 1-Up Mushrooms.

Lakitus are enemies in the Super Mario Bros.: Peach-hime Kyūshutsu Dai Sakusen!. They resemble their in-game counterparts, but their clouds have no faces, except for two in the ending credits. Many Lakitus appear during the Koopa Troop invasion of the Mario Bros.' home. After this, no Lakitus are given major roles until shortly after Mario and Luigi had collected the Super Mushroom. The Mario Bros. are eventually attacked by a Lakitu, who explains that he wanted lure Mario and Luigi into his Piranha Plant garden in order to feed his plants, and that they will pay for having destroyed his garden. He traps Luigi amongst a horde of big-sized Spinies, although Mario manages to escape his eggs. A beanstalk appears and boosts Mario to Lakitu's height. The amused Lakitu then scoffs at Mario and shakes his hand before realizing that it is adjacent to his enemy. Though he attempts to escape, Mario manages to take the cloud, which he tampers with until he accidentally destroys the Spinies, saving Luigi.

Only one Lakitu (also spelled Lakatu) appears in the episode of The Super Mario Bros. Super Show!: "Mario and the Red Baron Koopa." It has the appearance of a green, more-reptilian turtle with a large nose, resembling generic Koopa Troopas in the cartoon, who wears a red-lensed, gold-framed aviator's goggles. King Koopa (using a magic carpet he has stolen from Sam Shalam) brings Lakitu to the country of Pastaland, where he scares the citizens, as well as Mario, Luigi, Princess Toadstool, and Toad, with Spinies and rain. Lakitu launches the Wicked Weather Satellite with King Koopa, and both of them relax atop Lakitu's cloud until it is destroyed. Lakitu last attempts to maintain its cloud, after the Mario Brothers' biplane had destroyed it. Its name is pronounced "la-KEE-too" by King Koopa and Princess Toadstool.
Koopa seemed to treat Lakitu more like a friend than a servant, as Koopa never once insulted Lakitu or got mad at him.

Lakitu appears in the episode of "Life's Ruff" of The Adventures of Super Mario Bros. 3. It has beak much like regular Koopas and rides a storm cloud. The Lakitu has no lines. It only throws some explosive Spiny Eggs at Luigi to obstruct him in his chase with Hip and Hop Koopa.

Lakitu appears in the comic "Cloud Burst" of Nintendo Comics System. It is depicted very similarly as in game, except it rides a Lakitu's Cloud named Fluffy and sports a shell that is white, black, blue, and yellow in color instead of green and white. The Lakitu steals most items it finds, including Koopabits as well as its king's crown and Princess Toadstool's. Lakitu is ordered by the Kong to attack Mario and Luigi, though when the latter is sprung into Lakitu's cloud, a limited friendship seemed to have developed between both of them. Though Lakitu takes Luigi's clothing, he played along, being mostly interested in retrieving Princess Toadstool's crown for her coronation.

Lakitu appears only in the comic "Mario will hoch hinaus" of Club Nintendo. It is in the opening panel, watching Mario fly in surprise.

Lakitus have a variety of roles in Super Mario-kun, including enemies in certain issues and both a referee and an announcer in various Mario Kart tracks. The latter type bonks Mario with the traffic light in one strip.

Lakitus are antagonists in Super Mario Adventures. They briefly attack Princess Toadstool and her Toads with Spiny Eggs. These Lakitus appear in an unknown desert area where Princess Toadstool's troopers are dehydrating; when the gang of Toads first see a Lakitu's Cloud appear, they mistake it for a harmless raincloud and initiate a rain dance to ensure water. However, when they see that their actions had only provoked the Lakitus, they declare that they had "done the wrong dance" and chaos ensues. After this brief appearance, it is later revealed that Bowser had kidnapped Princess Toadstool and therefore, it can be assumed that the Lakitus captured her and her gang. Later, during Bowser and the princess's wedding, a Lakitu can be seen tossing confetti.

A Fishin' Lakitu appears throughout the Mario Kart series and takes on many responsibilities, guiding the race most of the time. He most prominently appears as the referee.

Lakitu is an unlockable playable character in Mario Kart 7. He wears a red shell and goggles, like in later appearances of the series. Lakitu is in the feather weight class, with high acceleration, handling, and off-road whilst having low speed and weight. He is unlocked by winning the 150cc Lightning Cup.

Lakitu is an unlockable playable character in Mario Kart 8 and Mario Kart 8 Deluxe. He is a slightly heavier lightweight, with slightly more speed and weight than acceleration, handling and grip. Lakitu is the Staff Ghost for SNES Donut Plains 3 and Dragon Driftway, the latter also having stone Lakitus in martial arts poses. Lakitu appears in the background of GBA Ribbon Road, on the poster of the fictional film Kung Fu Lakitu. In the port, Lakitu's stats are the same as Bowser Jr. and Koopa Troopa's only; he is also the 200cc staff ghost for DS Cheep Cheep Beach; and Lakitu in martial arts poses are found also in Dragon Palace. He is the only character who is neither a character variant nor a non-Super Mario character to not appear in the photoMedia:MK8DXThankYouEndScreen.jpg that appears at the end of the credits for the Booster Course Pass.

Lakitu is a downloadable playable character in Mario Kart Arcade GP DX, added in an update on December 12, 2018. It is billed a light character and has average acceleration, poor speed, and great handling. Lakitu has the distinction of being the only character whose Standard Kart is designed differently, resembling a Lakitu's Cloud instead.

Lakitu is a playable character in Mario Kart Tour, since the Tokyo Tour. Its Special Item is the Triple Green Shells.

A Lakitu appears in Mario vs. Wario. It wears a blue cap and a blue rucksack, as well as having a little tail when moving. The Lakitu only delivers Wario's letter to Mario at the start.

A Lakitu is a miniboss in Yoshi's Safari. It is fought in Ghost Mansion and later again in Bowser's Castle. Lakitu attacks by throwing Spiny Eggs.

A Lakitu appears in the second Yoshi's Safari volume of the Super Mario Kodansha manga. It and other enemies are killed by Mario and his friends accidentally as they try to outrun a Chargin' Chuck. The enemies's souls are absorbed into the Big Boo.

Lakitus are supporting characters in the Mario Tennis series. One is an umpire in Mario's Tennis, holding a screen that displays information about the score in each match. The Lakitus in Mario Power Tennis, Mario Tennis Open, Mario Tennis: Ultra Smash, and Mario Tennis Aces retrieve any balls if they stop bouncing across the court. A Lakitu appears in three Special Games of Mario Power Tennis: Chain-Chomp Challenge, where it holds the in-game timer; Balloon Panic, holding the total score; and Artist On the Court, counting down with traffic lights briefly before the minigame starts. There is tennis gear for Miis in the likeness of Lakitus in Mario Tennis Open. A Lakitu appears during Blooper's entrance in Mario Tennis Aces, carrying a bucket with a fishing pole that Blooper jumps out of.

Lakitus are introduced in the Yoshi's Island series as enemies in Super Mario World 2: Yoshi's Island and its remake. They are encountered in several levels, with their name also appearing in three: Watch Out For Lakitu, Lakitu's Wall, and The Cave Of The Lakitus. Lakitus follow after the Yoshis, throwing explosive Spiny Eggs in the direction indicated by a cursor. Yoshi can steal a Lakitu's cloud to ride it temporarily. Lakitus received a few variants, including Wall Lakitus, Aqua Lakitus, and Thunder Lakitus. Fishing Lakitus make a reappearance return.
In both sequels, Yoshi's Island DS and Yoshi's New Island, Lakitus (and Wall Lakitus in the former game) return as enemies and behave identically as in Super Mario World 2: Yoshi's Island.

Lakitu is an antagonist in the VS. COM mode and a playable character in the Time Trial mode of Tetris Attack. It replaces Windy from Panel de Pon. The Lakitu in the VS. COM mode is allied with a Goonie and fought in the Breeze Stage, and the two of them are freed from Kamek's spell after losing.

Lakitus are enemies in Super Mario RPG: Legend of the Seven Stars and its remake. They are encountered in four areas. The first Lakitu is encountered in Mushroom Way, where it throws Spikeys to attack, but is at a high enough altitude to make it out of Mario's reach. The next Lakitu is at Rose Way, attacking by lowering Shy Guys from its fishing pole down at the player characters. There is a Lakitu in Booster Pass that attacks using Spikesters, and it can be defeated if jumped on from a cliff above. Lakitus are lastly encountered in the corridors of Bowser's Keep and use quick attacks in battle.
Lakitus are also friendly non-playable characters. The Lakitu in Tadpole Pond is a helper of Frog Sage, carrying him across the lake to give the illusion that he can float in midair (ruined briefly when the Lakitu lowers before recovering shortly after); the same Lakitu is present when Frog Sage admits to Mallow that he is not a tadpole. A huge, mustachioed Lakitu operates a bus to transport the party from Nimbus Land to Bowser's Keep. The two Lakitus appear in the ending sequence, riding a large cloud in the likeness of the royal bus.
A Lakitu helper in Booster Tower and red- and blue-shelled variants were originally planned to appear.

Lakitus are supporting characters in the Game & Watch Gallery series. They appear in the Modern versions of several Game & Watch games; in most of them, Lakitus leave behind a heart for any misses at 200, 500, or 700 points in the Modern Octopus within Game & Watch Gallery and Game & Watch Gallery 4; Turtle Bridge in Game & Watch Gallery 3, and Rain Shower in Game & Watch Gallery 4. One has a different role in the Modern version of Parachute in Game & Watch Gallery 2, fishing out characters who land into the water.
In Game & Watch Gallery 3, in the Modern version of Turtle Bridge, a Lakitu appears and drops a heart if Toad has any misses at 200, 500, or 700 points.
In Game & Watch Gallery 4, in the Modern version of Rain Shower, a Lakitu appears and drops a heart if Mario has any misses at 200, 500, or 700 points. A Lakitu also reprises its role in Octopus.

Lakitus are enemies in Yoshi's Story. Lakitus have a different look consisting of rosy cheeks and separate lenses on their goggles. They still ride clouds, which a Yoshi can use upon defeating it, and throw spiked balls, and sometimes melons, instead of Spiny Eggs. There is a Lakitu, called a「ウォータージュゲム」 (Wōtā Jugemu, Water Lakitu) at the end of Shy Guy Limbo, where it drops water streams capable of pushing Yoshi down a pit near the end.

Lakitus are supporting characters in Mario Party. One of them holds a sign displaying the mini-game type before the player characters begin it. A Lakitu appears in the end of Mario's Rainbow Castle, saving the character in fourth place and carrying them away.

Lakitus appear in the minigames Shy Guy Says, Bumper Balloon Cars, and Magnet Carta in Mario Party 2. The Lakitu in the former minigame indicates the remaining time to raise a flag during a turn, while the Lakitus hold a starting light when starting the latter two minigames.

Lakitus are supporting characters in Mario Party 3. A Lakitu is first encountered during the intro, delivering a toy box with the "Mario Party" board game to the player characters. Three Lakitus are in the settings menu of Story Mode, holding the character, CPU difficulty, and mini-game options respectively. Lakitus are non-playable characters the minigames Mario's Puzzle Party, giving bricks and Thwomps to the player characters; Frigid Bridges, rescuing any player characters who fall into the water; Chip Shot Challenge, dropping a flag into the hole in the intro; and Pump, Pump and Away, holding signs for each 100-yard interval.

Lakitus appear in the minigames Fish n' Drips and Dungeon Duos in Mario Party 4. The former minigame has a Lakitu at the start, holding a Cheep-Cheep on the hook of its fishing rod, and the latter has a Lakitu rescue any player character who falls into a pit.

Lakitus appear in the minigame Lakitu's Luck of Mario Party-e. They hold up the roulettes for the player to spin.

Lakitu is a supporting character in Mario Party 5. It is part of the Lakitu Capsule and steals Capsules from an opponent.

Lakitu is a supporting character in the minigame Jump the Gun of Mario Party 6. It carries a character back onto the last Bullet Bill they were on.

Lakitu is a non-playable character in Mario Party Advance. He loves Toad Force V and carries a Fishing Pole with a Toad Force V action figure on the end. Lakitu is encountered in Lakitu House in Shroom City. He can recite most lines of dialogue from memory except for an iconic line from one of the episodes, so if the player accepts Lakitu's favor, he implies that they visit Mushbert at the Mushroom Condo. After Lakitu is told the line by the player, who had learned it from Mushbert, he rewards the player with the Bait 'n Wait Gaddget. Lakitu is revealed in the epilogue to secretly want to become a screenwriter.
A Lakitu is a referee for the minigames, initiating the start and end of each minigame with his whistle-blowing cloud.

Lakitus are supporting characters in the board Neon Heights and the minigame Fun Run in Mario Party 7. The Lakitu of Neon Heights is part of the Lakitu Orb, where it steals a Treasure Chests from a Koopa Kid on behalf of the user to give to them. The Lakitu in Fun Run recovers any player characters who have fallen.

A Lakitu is a supporting character in the minigame Test for the Best and an obstacle in the minigame Glacial Meltdown in Mario Party 8. In the former, Lakitu uses a fishing pole to hold the 6,000 point sign, while in the latter, it throws Buzzy Beetles at the player characters.

A Lakitu is the boss fought in the minigame Sock It to Lakitu in Mario Party 9. Lakitu is fought halfway through Toad Road in Solo Mode. Lakitu attacks by throwing Spinies, and larger ones after losing at least half of its health. It takes damage from being hit by Bullet Bills at it.

Lakitus are non-playable characters in the boards Perilous Palace Path and Bowser's Peculiar Peak] and the minigames Pachinko Wizard and Pool Buoy in Mario Party: Island Tour. Lakitus in Perilous Palace Path are part of the the Lakitu Leech item, and the one in Bowser's Peculiar Peak holds the winner at the end. The Lakitus in Pachinko Wizard and Pool Buoy throws Spiny Eggs to avoid and flag buoys for the player characters to collect, respectively.

A Lakitu is a non-playable character in the minigame Paintball Battle in Mario Party 10. It drags away any player character once they have been eliminated.

Lakitu is a supporting character in Toad Scramble mode of Mario Party: Star Rush. It is part of the Lakitu space, and for one coin, it carries the player character to a space that another player character is on.

Lakitus are supporting characters in the minigame Paths of Peril in Mario Party: The Top 100. They replace Kleptos from the original Mario Party 4 iteration, recovering player characters who fall off of cliffs.

Lakitu is a non-playable character in Super Mario Party. It steals either coins for free or a Star for 30 coins on behalf of a player character. He has two lines of unique dialogue when speaking to Bowser and Bowser Jr.

Lakitus are non-playable characters in the Peach's Birthday Cake board and the returning minigames Mario's Puzzle Party, Dungeon Duos, and Paths of Peril in Mario Party Superstars. A Lakitu appears if the player character lands on an Event Space and asks them if they want either a small Piranha Pod or a large Piranha Pod planted, for five and thirty coins, respectively. Lakitu refers to both types as a "strawberry."

In the Super Smash Bros. series, the earliest roles that Lakitu had is in Super Smash Bros., where a Lakitu Bro sometimes appears in the background of the Peach's Castle stage. Similarly, in Super Smash Bros. Melee, a Fishin' Lakitu makes a cameo appearance in the background of the Yoshi's Island stage, and a normal Lakitu can be seen in the upper part of the Mushroom Kingdom stage, alongside two green Koopa Troopas and a Goomba.
Various items of Lakitu have appeared throughout the games. In Super Smash Bros. Melee, a Lakitu appears as a trophy, which can be obtained at random in single-player modes or from the Lottery. In Super Smash Bros. Brawl, the Mario Kart 64 incarnation of Lakitu appears as a sticker. Lakitu and Spiny appear together in Super Smash Bros. Ultimate as an Advanced-class Grab-type primary spirit When this spirit is equipped, the fighter's weight is reduced, making them faster but easier to launch. In World of Light, the spirit can be found in the Mysterious Dimension sub-world of the Dark Realm. The spirit battle has Iggy and eight tiny red Bowsers as opponents.
Lakitus were introduced as an Assist Trophy character with Spinies in Super Smash Bros. Brawl, appearing in their original 8-bit form from Super Mario Bros. Upon being released, Lakitu throws Spinies on the ground, hurting whoever touches the Spinies. Lakitu is one of the few Assist Trophies in Super Smash Bros. Brawl whom other fighters can attack and defeat. Lakitu returns as an Assist Trophy in both Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS and Super Smash Bros. for Wii U, behaving identically as before. In Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS's Smash Run mode, Lakitus behave very similarly to their Assist Trophy counterpart, except they take on their standard design, consistent with recent releases at the time.

Lakitu is a supporting character in the Mario Golf series. It is the referee of the Speed Golf sub-game in Mario Golf, Mario Golf: Toadstool Tour, and Mario Golf: World Tour, using his traffic light before the mode starts from Mario Kart 64, Mario Kart: Double Dash!! and Mario Kart 7, respectively. Lakitu also rescues any balls lost to water hazards, as well as tree hazards in Mario Golf: Toadstool Tour. A golf course titled Lakitu Valley appears in Mario Golf: Toadstool Tour but has no unique relevance to Lakitus. In Mario Golf: World Tour, Lakitu is one of the names on the tournament scoreboard of Castle Club, usually hanging in ranks close to last place. He also welcomes players at the Sky Island entrance, and there is golf gear based on Lakitus that Miis can use.

Lakitus are enemies in Paper Mario. They are encountered in Flower Fields only. They assist Huff N. Puff in his plot to cover the flora-filled place with clouds. Besides throwing Spiny Eggs, Lakitus also charge at Mario upon sighting him. As well as appearing as generic enemies, Lakitus appear as mini-bosses at least three times in Paper Mario. The Lakitus in this game appear to directly serve Huff N. Puff, rather than just Bowser. Three Lakitus and a Yellow Magikoopa are mid-bosses, trying to prevent Mario from destroying the Puff Puff Machine. The game introduces two Lakitu characters Lakilester, who joins Mario as a party member during his journey, and his girlfriend Lakilulu.

Lakitus appear in Paper Mario: The Thousand-Year Door and its remake. Only one appears in the main story as a part of Spike Storm, a Lakitu/Spiny team Mario and his partners fight in the Glitz Pit's minor league. Several Lakitus also appear in floors 23 and 28 of the Pit of 100 Trials. Additionally, a more powerful sub-species known as the Dark Lakitu, appear in floors 61-69 of the Pit of 100 Trials. However, Lakitus are more common in case of NPCs, such as Laki, a train enthusiast found near the Excess Express boarding area and a gray Lakitu with a camera in the Glitz Pit, as well as Lakitu crowd members.

Lakitus appear in Super Paper Mario. They are encountered in areas such as the Dotwood Tree and Overthere Stair; however, the aforementioned Laki character from Paper Mario: The Thousand-Year Door is given a reference in some Merlee's Mansion graffiti in this game and a Lakitu (despite his species's obscurity in Super Paper Mario) can appear as one of the randomly-generated characters on the first page of the Japanese Super Paper Mario website. The Lakitu Catch Card in Super Paper Mario states Lakitu's motives for throwing Spiny Eggs at opponents: Lakitu's actions are because someone "made fun of its glasses". It's implied that Laki wrote graffiti on the wall of Merlee's Basement.

A Lakitu appears in Paper Mario: Sticker Star. It is encountered on Whammino Mountain only. It retains the appearance of Lakitus in Paper Mario and Paper Mario: The Thousand-Year Door. It is an obstacle, throwing Spinies. The Lakitu can be defeated at the top of the mountain if Mario jumps on it as the Lakitu goes down. There are several unused hurt frames for Lakitu, suggesting that Lakitus were planned to be enemies to fight. There are also unused graphics for a fishing pole associated with Lakitu's graphics in the data.

Lakitu is mentioned in Paper Mario: Color Splash by Luigi while the characters drive across the Rainbow Road to Black Bowser's Castle.

Lakitus appear in a minor role in Mario & Luigi: Superstar Saga and its remake. They were given a variant, Lakipea, which throws Sharpeas to attack. A Fishin' Lakitu with a red shell appears every time a Mario Brother levels up, carrying a selecting device that allows the player choose which stat they wish to add bonus points to (on top of the normal points gained while leveling up). Once selected, the device then flips over and becomes a roulette that determines how many points that stat earns, from one to three. Lakitus appear before the final battle with Fawful, with two holding up spotlights to reveal Fawful's cloakless form.

Lakitu plays a larger role in Minion Quest: The Search for Bowser. One serves as the sidekick and adviser to Captain Goomba and his squad, often scouting for minions and lost soldiers during his quest to rally Bowser's army and rescue their king. He first appears in the Beanbean Kingdom, when Captain Goomba and Captain Shy Guy are ready to take on the brainwashed Larry Koopa and his minions; he diverts them to a hidden place in the outskirts of the castle town and explains what he is up to. Lakitus also appear as units in the missions A Cloudy Day, Chain Chomp and Spike Stomp, Pokey Panic, Rumble in the Castle!, Goomba's Worth and The Mightiest Minions. Their special attack is Chain Stomp, which allows them to stomp on an enemy twice. They are strong against Sharpeas and Spinies, and weak against Shy Guys.

Lakitus are supporting characters in Mario & Luigi: Partners in Time. One assists in leveling up once more. A Lakitu with a camera also goes to Peach's Castle presumably to report on the launch of Professor Elvin Gadd's Time Machine towards the beginning of the game; when Toadsworth's fainting faces Mario with the challenge of retrieving a Refreshroom from the elderly Toad's room, this friendly Lakitu reporter (possibly one of the Lakitu Bros.) helps by providing a "cloud-cam view" of the castle, actually the bird's-eye map that Mario, Luigi, and their baby selves continue to use throughout the rest of their adventure. The Lakitu then flies off and is never seen again; as a matter of fact, the only other generic Lakitu seen in Mario & Luigi: Partners in Time is an unnamed agent of Lakitu Travel who transports Kylie Koopa and Toadbert to the Star Shrine right before the battle with Elder Shrooboid. However, another Lakitu sub-species can be fought in the Vim Factory; these Shroob-like Lakitus, the Lakitufos, fly on UFOs rather than clouds, have antennae, and beam down Spiny Shroopas rather than throwing Spinies.

A Lakitu is a supporting character in Mario & Luigi: Bowser's Inside Story and the remake. It is the assistant for leveling up, just as before. The game introduces two variations, including Glam Lakitu and Lakitu King.
Lakitus are enemies and recruitable allies in Bowser Jr.'s Journey. They are strong against Spinies and weak against Captain Shy Guy.

Lakitus are enemies in Mario & Luigi: Dream Team. They are encountered in Dreamy Driftwood Shore. Outside of battle, Lakitus can either swoop down to run into Mario, or they can throw a Spiny Egg, causing a Spiny to appear when it hits the ground. Lakitus do not appear while leveling up, unlike before.
In battle, they appear in the background. Lakitu throw Spiny Eggs (or Mushrooms on rare occasion) in battle, either landing on Mario's head or sending them across the ground and into Mario. The Spiny Eggs can be hit back with the hammer, which damages the Lakitu. After this attack, Spinies will enter the battle. When a Taunt Ball is used on a Lakitu, it will attack immediately.
Two new species of Lakitus also appear: Lakitu Rs, a stronger version of Lakitu in Dreamy Neo Bowser Castle, and Commander Lakitus, which appear in Somnom Woods and appear groups of two and fight in the background by ordering certain attacks to Boomerang Bros.

Lakitus are non-playable characters in Mario & Luigi: Paper Jam. They host the Lakitu Info Center. In it, the player can play mission and minigames which goals are often rescuing Paper Toads, crucial in continuing the story. After a certain amount of sidequests are cleared, the player is rewarded with a Battle Card.

A Lakitu is an enemy in Mario Pinball Land. It is encountered in the Shifting Sands Stage. The Lakitu is beyond the left path. It floats out of reach and cannot be defeated, though defeating the four Spinies earns Mario a Star.

Lakitus cameo in the microgame Clawing for More in WarioWare: Touched! Lakitu sprites from Super Mario Bros. are one of the random sprites that appear from the ball by breaking it open.

Lakitus are enemies in Yoshi Touch & Go. They fly by the top screen. Defeating one is worth five points, or fifteen seconds in Challenge mode. Wall Lakitus also appear.

A Lakitu is a supporting character in Yakuman DS. It hosts the tutorial and provides advice. Lakitu wears an academic cap, owing to his skill at playing mahjong.

Lakitus are supporting characters in Dance Dance Revolution: Mario Mix. A Lakitu in World 1 asks the player character to get rid of the Koopa Troopas in his garden and rewards them the key to Truffle Towers afterward. A Pirate Lakitu in World 2 has the Boogie Booster, which the player character can receive by winning against him in fishing. A Lakitu appears in the minigame Whee!, catching the player character after he falls from jumping from the trampoline.

In both Mario Superstar Baseball and Mario Super Sluggers, a green Lakitu takes the role of an umpire just as it did in Mario Tennis. This time, it calls the strikes, outs, and announces the start or the end of any exhibition game. Lakitu is also the only character in the Mario Baseball series to have dialogue but not be playable. The umpire Lakitu is seen in the opening cinematic in Mario Super Sluggers as the home plate umpire as Daisy prepares to swing for the ball. In the last of the four cinematics, the umpire Lakitu is seen to be next to Peach as others are at the Daisy Cruiser at night after winning a decisive game against Bowser.

Lakitus are enemies in Super Princess Peach. They look and behave similarly as in Super Mario World 2: Yoshi's Island. Lakitus received a variant named. Calm Lakitus. Fishing Boos also return and similarly received their own variant, C. Fishing Boo.

A Lakitu is a non-playable character in Mario Hoops 3-on-3. The Lakitu holds the ball on its fishing pole before players begin a round.

Lakitus are non-playable characters in both the home console and handheld versions of Mario & Sonic at the Olympic Games. They take the role of referees, specifically for characters of the Super Mario franchise in Javelin Throw, Hammer Throw, 10m Platform, Trampoline, and Vault in the handheld version. A Lakitu is the referee of Archery during the opening cutscene of the home console release.

Lakitus return in both the home console and handheld versions of Mario & Sonic at the Olympic Winter Games. In the former, a Lakitu in Dream Ice Hockey drops the puck onto the rink, as well as Wild Balls at random. In certain events of the handheld release, Fishin' Lakitus rescue any player character who falls, and it also informs of the current lap count; furthermore, a Lakitu in the Adventure Tours mode hosts the Short Track 500m and Intense Short Track missions, with the Meteor Curling Stone being the reward for winning.

Lakitus return in the home console version of Mario & Sonic at the London 2012 Olympic Games. They are referees as well as interactable characters in London Party for playing minigames and earning stickers.
Lakitus return in the handheld version, holding drinks for characters to collect in 10km Marathon Swim. There is also a Lakitu in Story Mode, first seen talking to Magikoopa at Stonehenge before leaving, and later appears at the opening ceremony for the Olympic Games. Lakitu makes a larger appearance in the bonus episodes, where it first appears giving Bowser a bad introduction to London, and notices with the other minions that Bowser seems to be in a  particularly bad mood. Lakitu accompanies Bowser to the challenge for him that they had set up for him with Donkey Kong, though leaves early to set up a challenge with Knuckles and Vector. To do this, Magikoopa transforms Lakitu to look like Charmy, and although initially confusing Knuckles and Vector it manages to distract them by doing an impression of Charmy. After Bowser wins the match, Lakitu stays behind to try and calm down Knuckles and Vector. It also appears in the last episode to help set up another match for Bowser, and celebrates with the other minions when his mood improves. A badge of Lakitu can be obtained from the badge machine. Fishin' Lakitus also appear in 10km Marathon Swim to provide the character with drinks.

Lakitus return in Mario & Sonic at the Sochi 2014 Olympic Winter Games. They appear during certain Action & Answer Tour events. One holds the starting lights with its fishing pole in Groove Pipe Snowboard and Roller Coaster Bobsleigh. A Lakitu appears in Ice Hockey and Snow Day Street Hockey to drop the puck on the rink, and the latter event also has a Lakitu who moves the bonus goal around on the Coin Street rink.

Lakitus return in the home console version of Mario & Sonic at the Rio 2016 Olympic Games and Mario & Sonic at the Rio 2016 Olympic Games Arcade Edition as a referee. In the former, Lakitu takes this role in Triple Jump, Javelin Throw, and Boxing. The home console version also adds Lakitu on the Copacabana Beach for every five winning medals earned in tournaments, giving the player thirty coins and Rings, or sixty if interacted to while wearing the Mii based on it, which is unlocked in two separate parts. A Lakitu appears in the Golf Plus event of the home console version, in which its sprite from Super Mario Bros. appears as a character wall.

Lakitu is a non-playable character in Mario & Sonic at the Olympic Games Tokyo 2020. It is a referee for both regular and 2D Events. A Lakitu is a supporting character in the Sport Climbing events, transporting any player characters who fall off back to the start or nearest checkpoint, depending on their progress.

Lakitu is a non-playable character in Mario Sports Mix. It is encountered in basketball, hockey, and dodgeball matches. The Lakitu is the referee, dropping the puck in hockey matches during a face-off, and throwing the basketball or dodgeball into the air during a tip-off.

Lakitu is a character in Itadaki Street DS and Fortune Street. When its card is drawn, Lakitu travels along the board, forcing every shop it passes by to close for the day.

Lakitus are enemies in Puzzle & Dragons: Super Mario Bros. Edition. They have high attack and average HP. Their attribute is Light, which makes them strong against enemies with the Dark attribute. Their maximum level is 99.
Their main skill is Cloud Guard while their helper skill is Auto Heal. Cloud Guard halves the damage received by enemies for 1 turn. Auto Heal recovers a small amount of a character's HP each time the player clears Orbs.

Lakitus are enemies in Yoshi's Woolly World and its reissue. They are first encountered in Spiky Stroll. Lakitus are the same as in the Yoshi's Island series and Yoshi's Story. A Gold Lakitu appears in Gold Rush Mode of Poochy Dash in the port only.

Lakitus are assistants in Dr. Mario World. Their stage mode function is granting bonus points for capsules remaining on stage clear, where each remaining capsule grants 80 points at the first level and 400 points at the maximum level (50 and 200 respectively prior to version 2.3.0). In versus mode, the effect is to grant a chance that the player's first six capsules will be of matching-color, where it is 10% at the first level and 50% at the maximum level. The assistant is rewarded in stage mode after clearing the first area in World 30. 
The April 26, 2020 update introduces one as a doctor, under the name Dr. Lakitu. This doctor is available as a special stage reward in World 15. Dr. Lakitu's skill is the same as Dr. Toadette except it affects less objects but the skill meter charges faster. Their stage mode skill changes one object into a handy box, in which viruses are prioritized as changed objects. This skill is represented by them flying on a cloud and leaving a trail of clouds, while at that time the object is transformed by clouds. Coins, capsules, objects that can eliminate viruses (e.g. Exploder), and objects that cannot be eliminated (e.g. Empty Block) cannot be transformed. Their versus mode skill hides a number of the opponent's viruses in clouds, where more viruses are hidden at higher levels, the amount being up to 9 viruses at the maximum level (7 prior to season 7).

Lakitu is an enemy in The Legend of Zelda: The Minish Cap. In this game, Lakitus were recognizable, but their clouds had no smiles, they seemed to not wear goggles, their hair was thicker (actually resembling Lakitu's hair as it appeared in Mario Superstar Baseball), and they threw thunderbolts rather than Spiny Eggs (much like the Super Mario enemy Thunder Lakitu). They are found in the Cloud Tops area and the corresponding dungeon, the Palace of Winds. Link has to attack them from afar, as the Lakitu hides in its cloud if he gets too close. Additionally, Link can use the Gust Jar to remove the cloud and render the Lakitu defenseless.

A Lakitu makes a cameo in Game Boy Camera. It is one of the Super Mario-themed stamps.

A Lakitu is referenced in Tetris DS. A large depiction of its sprite from Super Mario Bros. is the opponent icon in the fourth difficulty level of the Vs. CPU mode, as well as the player's own icon in various other Standard Mode games.

A Lakitu randomly appears in the Free Fishing minigame included in the AR Games software, in which it fishes for Bloopers. Such Bloopers can also be caught by the player, but they must be very quick, as Lakitu appears for a short time only.

Lakitus make a cameo appearance in Nintendo Badge Arcade. They appear in the form of badges in their Super Mario Bros., Super Mario Bros. 3, Super Mario World, and Mario Kart 8 styles.

Lakitus are cloud riding Koopas known for throwing Spinies. They have small eyes and noses, wear thick goggles (or glasses) and are usually depicted with three small strands of hair. Lakitus have a ring pattern on their shells rather than the hexagon pattern featured on those of Koopa Troopas and Hammer Bros, and are also shown not to wear any footwear, unlike other Koopas. Lakitus are almost always seen riding small smiling white clouds similar to Cloud Blocks, although other colored clouds have been shown, such as Lakithunder's and King Lakitu's stormy angry cloud, or Lakilulu's pink cloud. Lakitus appear to resemble softshell turtles, given the similar shape of their noses and the smoothness of their shells.
Although Lakitu's goggles are generally shown to have temples, the playable Lakitu in the Mario Kart series has straps instead. This also applies to the referee Lakitu, who sports a snorkeling mask on tracks that feature underwater driving.

Lakitus were first shown speaking in The Super Mario Bros. Super Show!, where a Lakitu spoke with a Brooklyn accent. In the games, Super Mario Kart first depicted Lakitu speaking in the game manual, where he narrates the instructions to the reader. Starting from Super Mario 64, Lakitus received text dialogue, which would be frequently used in a multitude of future installments. Lakitu gained an actual voice for the first time in Mario Superstar Baseball. While Lakitu generally speaks in grunts, sighs, and yells, he is notably one of the few members of Bowser's army (along with Magikoopas and Hammer Bros.) that have been portrayed speaking with actual words. In the Mario Baseball series, Dex Manley voices Lakitu with various umpire calls, such as "Strike", "Out", and "That's the ball game!" In modern games, Tadd Morgan does not portray Lakitu with as many words, though he can be heard saying short phrases such as, "Haha, yeah!" and "Oh, wha?"