Land's End is a level in Super Mario RPG: Legend of the Seven Stars. As its name implies, it is the last piece of land before the ocean, save for Nimbus Land and Barrel Volcano, which are not connected to the main continent by land. Land's End also refers to the fifth mandatory world, a tall plateau composed of the main Land's End area itself, Monstro Town, Bean Valley, and Grate Guy's Casino. It is considered World 6 in the Shogakukan guide World 5 in the Player's Guide, and Land's End Region in the remake. Few people have ever traveled to this uncharted region.
Land's End is split into four sections: the mountains, the field, the desert, and the underground, which leads to the legendary Belome Temple. The first section is large, mountainous and rocky. It is filled with Geckits and a large amount of pot cannons. The second part is the smallest; it is a field filled with flowers and several insects, and Mario must jump on the Spinning Flowers and jump across on the Donut Blocks before advancing.
The third part is the largest; it is a sprawling desert filled with at least half a dozen creatures who have grown accustomed to the harsh environment. It is also filled with a lot of sand whirlpools that can suck up unsuspecting travelers. Until Mario and company arrived, no one had ever survived traveling through these whirlpools. Additionally, there is a large, almost insurmountable stone wall at the end of the desert. Climbing this cliff will lead to Bean Valley, which eventually leads to Nimbus Land. The mysterious "Formless" also wanders around the outer desert parts of Land's End.
Beneath the desert, there is a large series of caverns, which, judging on the fact that they include signs, support beams and barrels, may have once been a mineshaft. The caverns also lead to the Kero Sewers, an earlier level, and Belome Temple, a sub-area of Land's End.
There is also a Sky Bridge run by a Shaman, who challenges Mario to jump across it without falling.  Mario can attempt this at any of three difficulty levels; the harder the difficulty, the greater the reward given if completed successfully.
Coincidentally, Land's End is an actual location in England that is similar in name and appearance.