Little Mousers are a species of small, blue, black or purple mice-like creatures who wear bandanas that obscure their faces. Their primary English name refers to another mouse-like foe, Mouser, who was introduced in Super Mario Bros. 2.

Little Mousers first appear in Super Mario World 2: Yoshi's Island, where they attempt to steal Yoshi's eggs and scurry away with them into their burrows. Ordinarily, they appear blue with yellow ears and red-orange feet. However, in a secret area of KEEP MOVING!!!! they appear black with teal ears and dark teal feet. Like many blue enemies in the game, their artwork instead depicts them as purple with red feet. Little Skull Mousers also appear, and are just like normal Little Mousers, except they wear skulls on their heads, move solely by jumping, and will not steal eggs until the skull is removed from the Little Mouser.

Little Mousers, along with Little Skull Mousers, both under their original name, also appear in Yoshi's New Island. They act the same as in their first appearance. They appear in Inside the Outside and Harry Hedgehog's Labyrinth.

Little Mousers later appear under the name of Mouser or Mice in Mario Kart: Super Circuit as obstacles in the Cheese Land course. However, they are replaced by two Chain Chomps in the course's reappearance in the Animal Crossing × Mario Kart 8 DLC pack and the base game of Mario Kart 8 Deluxe.

Little Mousers appear in Paper Mario as friendly NPCs localized as Nomadimice; they are found in Dry Dry Outpost, which they have inhabited since ancient times. One of them named Moustafa gives Mario the Pulse Stone, which is necessary to open the secret path to Dry Dry Ruins. A purple one called Little Mouser runs Little Mouser's Shop and is one of Moustafa's close confidants. A wandering Nomadimouse is found along the path in Dry Dry Desert and is part of the game's letter sidequest.

In Paper Mario: The Thousand-Year Door, Little Mousers were relocalized as Squeeks in the original version and were shown to be one of the primary inhabitants of Rogueport and Rogueport Underground; a white Squeek, known as Ms. Mowz also appears in Paper Mario: The Thousand-Year Door as an optional partner of Mario. Lumpy's diary also references the Squeeks found in Dry Dry Outpost, particularly Moustafa.

In Mario Party Advance, Little Mouser, localized simply as Mouser appears as the boss and owner of the Duel Tower. Mouser is a skilled duelist himself, as he "even battled it out with Bowser!" according to his in-game description. When the player first enters the tower, they are greeted by Mouser, who then asks if they know about the "duelist greeting" or not. If the correct answer is given ("Chaaaaarge!"), then the Duel Tower quest starts.
As the player duels with both Whomp and Salvo, Mouser appears between stages to cheer the player on. On the third, Mouser himself is fought at the game Chicken! Once he is beaten, he says that only the player can stop Bowser from conquering the world and lets the player keep the tower minigames. The ending said that he was bummed that Whomp left the Duel Tower.

In Mario Party 8, Little Mouser, localized as Mowz (or Mouser), is a recurring character. It first appears in King Boo's Haunted Hideaway. If a ? Space is landed on inside the mansion, Mowz will let the player spin a wheel with a pinball inside. Depending on which one of three holes on the wheel the ball lands in (Coins, Star, or Candy), it will steal an item from a random opponent for the player.
Another appearance of Mowz is in Shy Guy's Perplex Express. If a player lands on one of the ? Spaces above the train, a Shy Guy comes and tells the character that Holly Koopa's candy was stolen. A suspect during the event can be either Mowz or Bandit. If the player correctly remembers which car Mowz was on, they are rewarded with 20 coins if played in a 4-player Party Tent or 10 coins in Duel Mode and Star Battle Arena.
It can also be seen in the Star Carnival in the menu screen. Other characters walking in the Star Carnival are Koopas, Shy Guys, and Chain Chomps.

Little Mousers reappear in Yoshi's Woolly World and Poochy & Yoshi's Woolly World, this time with a yarn-like appearance, buttons for ears, an indigo color, and orange feet. They only appear several times and try to steal yarn balls off Yoshi. If he eats the Little Mousers, they will turn into blue yarn balls.

A Little Mouser appears in Super Smash Bros. Ultimate as a spirit. It gives the fighter increased jump and movement speed.

Little Mousers reappear in Yoshi's Crafted World. Here, they hold onto magnets, and throw Coins to each other. One also steals the Blue Dream Gem, before the Tin-Can Condor boss fight. A Little Mouser also appears as a cut cardboard craft hanging on a hook in Mr. Geary's Factory.