The Los Angeles Tour was the forty-eighth tour of Mario Kart Tour, which began on July 14, 2021 and ended on July 27, 2021. The tour introduced a new layout of the Los Angeles Laps course, named Los Angeles Laps 3 (which actually the second layout of the course), while also introducing a new variant of Mario in his baseball uniform and helmet from Super Mario Odyssey. Funky Kong and Mario (Sunshine) returned in the second spotlight after they were previously featured in the spotlights in the 2020 Los Angeles Tour and the Banana Pipe in the 2021 Yoshi Tour. This was the first tour since the 2020 Yoshi Tour thirty-three tours prior to introduce only similar-looking gliders, being the Home-Field Glider and Gold Home-Field Glider, and the first overall to introduce only similar-looking karts, being the Pinch Hitter and Cleanup Hitter. This was the first tour since the Jungle Tour thirty tours prior to include the Lemmy Cup.
This tour continued the Summertime Celebration event that started on the previous tour, the 2021 Summer Tour; like that tour, it added new Multiplayer and unique Challenges.
This tour's Coin Rush course was N64 Kalimari Desert, which was reused from the Wild West Tour. The menu's background featured the baseball stadium and two palm trees from Los Angeles Laps 3 as the landmark for this tour.
This was the last tour to feature the fifth set of Expert Challenges, which started in the Bowser vs. DK Tour.

Drivers with a corresponding cup were bumped one rank up in every course of their cup.

Players' most recently used kart and glider are chosen, and favourite and favored ones have extra priority. Opponents are arranged randomly. On day 1 of this tour, players finish a race in 3DS Rosalina's Ice World in the Iggy Cup using Nabbit for a free pipe launch. Starting from day 2, players have to finish a race in the earliest incomplete course that is not in any of the ranked cups using the driver shown on the course's thumbnail every day to obtain the corresponding reward in the table below. Once all of the courses are completed, the courses are selected at random.

Gold cells indicate rewards that are exclusive to Gold Pass members.

The All-Clear Pipe randomly shot out one of the following regular High-End items.

The limited-time event where event tokens appeared began on July 14, 2021 and ended on July 27, 2021. Event tokens could be earned from collecting them in courses.

The shop featured a variety of set and randomized items available for purchase. The item slots in the shop are unlocked based on the highest tier of players.