Lubba is a character in Super Mario Galaxy 2. He is a large purple Luma and the leader of the species in this appearance. Lubba has an orb on his head and wears blue trousers with darker and lighter squares divided by diagonal borders. Like the other Lumas, Lubba can also be fed by shooting Star Bits at him. Lubba often makes remarks about the guests on his ship; as an example, he claims to be allergic to honeybees, has an aversion to Gearmos, and considers Whittles to be good friends.

In the story of Super Mario Galaxy 2, Lubba is first seen after Mario completes Peewee Piranha's Temper Tantrum, the first mission of Sky Station Galaxy. Prior to the game's events, Bowser destroyed Lubba's first spaceship by firing several meteors at it, causing most of the Lumas on the ship to fall down to the Mushroom Kingdom. After Mario brings back the "young master Luma," Lubba thanks him and creates Starship Mario with the former's fellow Lumas, promptly appointing Mario the captain afterward. Lubba aids and accompanies Mario in his quest to defeat Bowser, making a deal with him that, in return for Mario recovering the Power Stars, he helps Mario rescue Princess Peach. As the captain of the mobile hub of the game and the leader of the Lumas, he more or less replaces Rosalina and Polari from Super Mario Galaxy in this respect. Lubba mostly stands by Starship Mario's wheel and informs Mario of different things to help him out. However, Lubba can also be found in some other places on the ship. Whenever a new item or passenger comes aboard the ship, Lubba appears somewhere else on the ship and tells Mario something about the new object or creature and/or says a joke about it/them. Whenever Mario enters a new world, Lubba flies off Starship Mario and says something about Mario's progress. After Bowser is defeated and the final Power Star of the Grandmaster Galaxy is collected and Rosalina boards Starship Mario, Lubba is revealed to have met her before, though the exact place is unclear. Lubba thanks Mario for his hard work bringing whom the former calls "The Lady of the Shooting Stars" on board the ship.
Lubba has various lines that appear during certain scenarios only. When the game is played early in the morning, Lubba's field speech bubble says, "So...sleepy..." When spoken to, he says, "Geez. It's kinda early, isn't it? I feel so sleepy..." When the Wii Remote's batteries are low, Lubba tells Mario to replace them and warns that it will be bad if the batteries die in a dangerous place. When Mario has 77 Power Stars or 777 or 7,777 Star Bits, Lubba says, "Hey, you have [number and object]! How lucky! ♪" Similarly, if the player has exactly 1,000 Star Bits, he says, "You have 1,000 Star Bits! That must feel pretty good!" Additionally, when Mario has 9,999 Star Bits, Lubba says, "What happens when you get 9,999 Star Bits? Something nice, I bet!"

Lubba appears in Rosalina's eagle, albatross, and hole-in-one animations in Mario Golf: World Tour.

Lubba makes a background appearance piloting Starship Mario above Mario Galaxy in both Super Smash Bros. for Wii U and Super Smash Bros. Ultimate.
A few collectible items of Lubba appear in the Super Smash Bros. series. In Super Smash Bros. for Wii U, there is a trophy of Lubba, and in Super Smash Bros. Ultimate, there is a support spirit of Lubba that grants the fighter immunity from reversed left-and-right controls when equipped. The Lubba spirit battle pits players against a giant Kirby, who starts the battle holding a Super Launch Star. There is decreased gravity for the duration of the battle (unless a spirit that counters this is equipped), and the battle takes place on the Mario Galaxy stage with the music "The Starship Sails" from Super Mario Galaxy 2 playing. 

Due to Mario Sports Superstars reusing Rosalina's golf animations from Mario Golf: World Tour, Lubba reappears in this game in the same capacity.