Magic carpets (also spelled Magic Carpets), generally also known as flying carpets or just carpets, appear in the Super Mario franchise as interactive flying platforms that can be used by player characters.

In Super Mario Bros. 2, Pidgit’s carpets are used by Pidgits to fly around. If the playable character grabs and throws or defeats the Pidgit, they are able to briefly ride it before it vanishes (Lakitu's Cloud would later act the same way, as of Super Mario World). Pidgit's carpets are colored black and red in the NES version, yellow and white in Super Mario All-Stars, and red and white in Super Mario Advance; they are also stretched in the latter version, and thus appear larger than they were in prior versions. In the game's data, however, they are still the same size.

Magic carpets in Super Mario 64 and its Nintendo DS remake do not have anything riding them at first and remain in place until the player character steps on them. Magic carpets appear only in Rainbow Ride. When stepped on, the carpet will follow a set rail, which is styled like a rainbow. If the player remains off the carpet for too long, it will disappear and respawn back in its original position. Once it gets to the end of the line, it will fall into the abyss and then respawn back at where it started.

Magic carpets in The Super Mario Bros. Super Show! are a recurring mode of transportation. Mario, Luigi, Princess Toadstool, Toad and other characters use these carpets sometimes.
Magic carpets in the episode "Mario's Magic Carpet" appear to have a car-like protrusion on them. However, in the episode "Mario and the Red Baron Koopa", different carpets are seen. King Koopa is seen flying a magic carpet that has a warplane protrusion, while Mario and Luigi fly around on normal-looking carpets that have steering wheels. Later on in the episode, Mario, Luigi and Toad use two ordinary magic carpets together to construct the wings of the flying carpet biplane.

A flying carpet is used by Princess Toadstool, Mario, Toad, and (depending on which route the reader takes) possibly Luigi to enter Iggy Koopa's secret laboratory in Water Land in the Nintendo Adventure Book Leaping Lizards. Three weeks later, some flying carpets are used in the first event in the International Mushroom Games, the obstacle course.
In Koopa Capers, Bowser sends a magic carpet to Mario Brothers Plumbing to kidnap the Mario Bros., whom he is desperate enough to ask to help in the search for his missing daughter. The carpet captures only Luigi (who had at first assumed the carpet was a gift and "a Goomba pattern rug") and proceeds to bring him to Bowser's Castle through the Mario Bros.' personal Warp Pipe.
In Brain Drain, if Luigi punches the correct code into the KoopaFone in the Koopa Command Center's cafeteria, he will order a pizza from Magic Carpet Pizzas, a business run by Pidgits who deliver pizzas with their magic carpets.

In Wario Land 4, flying carpets are found in the level Arabian Night. Wario can step on a carpet and fly by repeatedly jumping from it. Flying carpets can be maneuvered in a certain direction by walking on their edge. They disappear when they touch water but will respawn if Wario exits and re-enters the area. They are necessary to use throughout the level.

Magic carpets in the Super Smash Bros. series were introduced in two different Super Mario-themed stages in Super Smash Bros. Melee, Mushroom Kingdom II and Rainbow Cruise, both in which they are usable platfomrs. In Mushroom Kingdom II, Pidgits sometimes briefly fly across the stage, but unlike them, their red carpets are 3D. Since they come and leave from the left and right sides of the stage, players are at risk of being KO'd while using one. In Rainbow Cruise, there is a magic carpet from Super Mario 64, functioning identically as before, but without the rainbow trails. However, more than one player can stay on a carpet, and as long as one player is on one, it does not vanish prematurely. As both stages return in Super Smash Bros. Ultimate (with the latter also returning in Super Smash Bros. Brawl), their respective magic carpets also come back, though the ones in Mushroom Kingdom II are now yellow (due to the stage's more Super Mario All-Stars-themed graphics).

Magic carpets in the Mario Party series have appeared a few times. In the minigame Random Ride from Mario Party 5, players can choose to ride a magic carpet from a list of machines. In Mario Party 9, a magic carpet simply titled the Flying Carpet is the starter vehicle of the Boo's Horror Castle board. In Mario Party: Island Tour, players use magic carpets to move through the Kamek's Carpet Ride board.

In Mario Kart 7 and Mario Kart Tour, Flying Shy Guys use magic carpets to move around the Shy Guy Bazaar course. In the latter game, magic carpets appear on their own in the Do Jump Boosts bonus challenge set in the same course, where the player can jump off of one for a Jump Boost.

In Yoshi's Woolly World and Poochy & Yoshi's Woolly World, the magic carpet only appears in Flying-Carpet Cruise where there are a variety of carpets by color and size. All kinds have arrows on them pointing left and right, and standing on one side causes the carpet to move in that direction, similar to Switchboards. If Yoshi jumps off of it, it floats upwards, and if he crouches while on it, it floats downwards. One carpet requires a yarn ball to be thrown at it to be usable.