Magikoopas (referred to as Kameks in Japanese, certain English localizations, and European languages, and also referred to as Koopa wizards in the Super Mario World television series) are bespectacled Koopas that can cast spells. Magikoopas made their debut in Super Mario World. They wear blue robes and hats resembling the garb of a wizard. They are generally considered to be high-ranking members of the Koopa Troop, and some act as personal advisors for Bowser.
Kamek, a lead Magikoopa, appears primarily in the Yoshi's Island series. He is usually the main villain or assistant to the main villain. Kamek is the only Magikoopa that appears in the Yoshi games. Lone Magikoopas appearing in other games are often said to be Kamek. Occasionally, Kamek is actually intended to be the character in question, but is called plain "Magikoopa" due to the fact that "Kamek" is also the generic name for the species in Japanese. An example of this is Mario Party 9, where Kamek is called by name in the British English localization but is called "Magikoopa" in the American English localization. However, this also works in reverse, with generic Magikoopas occasionally called Kameks in some British English versions, such as in Super Mario Maker.

Magikoopas first appear as enemies in Super Mario World. In this game, they appear in #3 Lemmy's Castle and #7 Larry's Castle, where they pop out of thin-air and shoot magic at Mario or Luigi. Their magic blasts have the power to turn a Rotating Block into a yellow Koopa Troopa, Thwimp, a Coin, or rarely a 1-Up Mushroom. Reverse engineering has shown that the chance of a block transforming into a particular object is as follows:

The magic blasts come in the forms of shapes: a circle, a triangle, and a rectangle. These magic spells hurt Mario if he touches them; however, he can safely Spin Jump off of them. It is also possible to cancel out the spell with a cape spin. The circle, triangle, and rectangle have become recurring elements in spells cast by Magikoopas in later games, as well as the Koopalings starting in New Super Mario Bros. Wii. Magikoopas are immune to fireballs. If one is defeated, another replaces it shortly afterward.
Along with the Chargin' Chuck, the Magikoopas seemed to have replaced Hammer Bros. as the elite forces of the Koopa Troop in this game. Magikoopas have a unique palette from other enemies in this game, with more yellow skin and a darker blue than other blue enemies. However, the palette is arranged incorrectly, causing the darkest shade of blue to display where the lightest should. In Super Mario World: Super Mario Advance 2, this unique palette has been replaced by the regular blue palette, and as such is mapped correctly. 

Despite the fact that they do not appear as normal enemies in Super Mario World 2: Yoshi's Island, this game marks the debut of the character Kamek, who is the main villain of the game. In the hallway before Baby Bowser's room, Kamek acts as generic Magikoopas do in Super Mario World. He does this again in Yoshi's New Island, again before Baby Bowser's room.

Although absent in the original Super Mario Bros. 3, Magikoopas appear in the e-Reader level Bowser's Last Stand in the Game Boy Advance remake Super Mario Advance 4: Super Mario Bros. 3. They behave similarly to those in Super Mario World, transforming Brick Blocks into green Koopa Troopas. Occasionally, their spells will backfire and produce a Super Mushroom instead.

In Super Mario Galaxy, Magikoopas, behaving much like they did in Super Mario World, are found on many different worlds and Airships; as always, they attack using magic via fireballs. Magikoopas, when defeated, always drop a coin.
A single Magikoopa, said to be Kamek by a Super Mario Galaxy trading card, makes a brief appearance in the opening scene: he attacks Mario trying to rescue Princess Peach and sends him flying into space. A large Magikoopa named Kamella is also introduced as a boss; she is fought up to three times when Prankster Comets are included.

Magikoopas also appear in Super Mario Galaxy 2. Like in the predecessor, they use magic to attack. They can either conjure up enemies (Mini Goombas and Li'l Cinders) or fireballs from the previous game. It is shown in Bowser's Galaxy Generator that Yoshi can eat the Magikoopas, and that they leave three Star Bits instead of one coin upon defeat.

Magikoopas reappear in Super Mario 3D Land, looking and acting as they do in the Super Mario Galaxy games, but they do not summon enemies. One takes the form of a Tail Bowser.

Magikoopas return in Super Mario 3D World and its Nintendo Switch port, retaining their strategy from Super Mario 3D Land. They also have their own Enemy Battle, Magikoopa Blockade. Defeating a Magikoopa rewards the player 1,000 points. They are called "Kameks" in European versions of the Wii U version due to the differences between regional localizations. In Bowser's Fury, Magikoopas have cat ears, and seven of them must be defeated at Fort Flaptrap in order to earn the Cat Shine "Show's Over, Cat Magikoopas".

Magikoopas reappear as enemies in Super Mario Maker, Super Mario Maker for Nintendo 3DS, and Super Mario Maker 2, acting as they did before. In the Course Maker, they can be placed as enemies, and if they are part of a stack, they will not teleport. Like many objects, they can be enlarged by a Super Mushroom and be given wings, the latter of which causes their projectiles to create winged objects when they hit a block, if applicable. If enlarged, they can make the objects created bigger as well. Shaking them has no effect, and they can be placed in Warp Pipes, Bill Blasters, and Blocks. In addition to transforming blocks, their shots can also make Goal Poles and Axes disappear, after which the Magikoopa that shot them must be defeated in order to bring said goals back. Also, they can be defeated by Mario's fireballs. In the Super Mario World style, they are slightly smaller than in the original game, their wand's jewels have a shaded outline around them, and the palette is mapped properly, unlike in the original. The palette has a similar yellow skin to the original, but the blue is more vibrant.
Magikoopas can transform objects into either Goombas, Koopa Troopas (red or green), Spinies, or rarely, Coins and Super Mushrooms, and when they have wings, can create lit Bob-ombs or Deep Cheeps (or their equivalents). In the game styles for Super Mario Bros., Super Mario Bros. 3, Super Mario World, and New Super Mario Bros. U, they can also create Buzzy Beetles, while in the Super Mario 3D World game style, they can create Ant Troopers and Skipsqueaks. Winged Magikoopas cannot create Coins, Buzzy Beetles, or Skipsqueaks.

Magikoopas, here renamed Koopa wizards, made various appearances in the Super Mario World television series. The first Koopa wizard introduced was a character named Wizenheimer, who was said to be the strongest of his species. He appeared in the episode "Ghosts 'R' Us" as the main antagonist instead of King Koopa. The first appearance of Koopa wizards as a species was in the episode "Rock TV", where Bowser used several Koopa wizards hidden in televisions he sold to hypnotize the inhabitants of Dome City. Near the end of the episode, Yoshi eats all the televisions of the cave-people and spits the Koopa wizards hidden in them out, saying they tasted disgusting. A Koopa wizard also appears in the episode "The Yoshi Shuffle"; after being knocked over by Luigi, the angry magician transforms him into a Yoshi's Egg. This Koopa wizard is eventually knocked backwards by a wayward stone football thrown by Yoshi.
The last appearance of a Koopa wizard was in the "Mama Luigi" episode, where one appears to attack Mario while he was exploring the deserted Dome City.

Magikoopa appears in three of the Nintendo Adventure Books, but there is only one, Bowser's third cousin twice removed. His magic powers mostly involve shrinking things. In Flown the Koopa, he is the main antagonist of the story, where he captures dinosaurs and shrinks them to put them into his TV for his entertainment as he does not have cable, while also petrifying intruders and dinosaurs that he got tired with into granite statues to get rid of them. In Unjust Desserts, his magic is responsible for all of the shrunken Koopa minions invading Yoshi's body. In Brain Drain, he can possibly be encountered leading an army when Luigi decides to follow Mario's mind in the princess's body instead of the princess's mind in Mario's body, which leads to a fight where Luigi and the princess's body must escape from.

In Mario Roulette, two Magikoopas can be seen in the audience when Mario explains how to play the game.

Two unnamed Magikoopas were also featured in the Super Mario Adventures comic; one Magikoopa, similar to Kamek, was shown to be Bowser's second-in-command, organizing his wedding, among other duties. Another, elderly and mustached Magikoopa was also used by Bowser to brainwash Princess Toadstool and several hundred Yoshis. This Magikoopa is eventually defeated when it was trampled by the very Yoshis it had hypnotized.

A single Magikoopa appears in Yoshi's Safari as the boss of Cornice Cave. This Magikoopa attacks Mario and Yoshi by teleporting around and shooting magic blasts; he can be defeated by being blasted in the face repeatedly with Mario's Super Scope. Mid-battle, he also makes himself larger and therefore more powerful, although the target of his face is also widened, making the remaining half of the fight somewhat easier.

In Super Mario RPG: Legend of the Seven Stars, several Magikoopas make a brief appearance at Rose Way and Moleville as minions of Bowser. However, the Magikoopas, along with the remaining members of the Koopa Troop, have difficulty combating the Smithy Gang and are eventually nowhere to be seen when Bowser is met at Booster Tower. Wizakoopa is the one in the lead, and is later encountered in Bowser's Keep.
The demo presentation of Super Mario RPG: Legend of the Seven Stars features a Magikoopa and an army of Terrapins in the Forest Maze fighting Mario and a crying Mallow, and shoots a magic spell that is blocked by Geno. This Magikoopa does not appear in gameplay. Internally, this Magikoopa is known as 「カメック」 (Kamek, its usual name) in the Japanese version and "Merlin" in the English version.

Kammy Koopa is Bowser's right-hand minion in Paper Mario, and Magikoopas appear as rare enemies. One first appears in Shooting Star Summit, and they are later encountered in Bowser's Castle. They maintain their teleportation abilities in this game, appearing and disappearing randomly and making it easy for them to get a first shot on Mario. Some Magikoopas also ride broomsticks, and have to be knocked off before Mario can hit them with his Hammer. Many variants are also introduced in this game, but regular Magikoopas are the strongest, having all the powers of the Magikoopa types, although the one fought on Shooting Star Summit does not appear to be a major threat.

Magikoopas are once again enemies in Paper Mario: The Thousand-Year Door; however, this time they can be encountered much earlier. A trio of different colored Magikoopas can first be found in Glitzville, and standard blue Magikoopas appear later in Rogueport Underground alongside Hammer Bros and Koopatrols after being scattered from a Superbombomb blast at the end of Chapter 5, replacing most of the enemies previously seen in Rogueport Underground. They have the same battle plan as in the first Paper Mario, and also retained the ability to make "copies" of themselves. When tattled, the Tattle Log image for the copies is noticeably off-center compared to the real one. Once again Kammy Koopa is shown being Bowser's right hand minion. She is shown to have higher authority than the rest of them throughout the game often giving orders and participating beside Bowser in a fight.

Magikoopas return in Super Paper Mario, appearing in The Bitlands and Castle Bleck. They are also present in Bowser's Castle and the wedding chapel at the beginning of the game. While still at Bowser's Castle, there is one generic Magikoopa standing by his side when he is giving his minions a motivational speech before they head off to kidnap the princess, and another standing in front of all the other minions. Also, in the Flopside Pit of 100 Trials, Dark Magikoopas, a fully black variation of Magikoopas, are introduced. They shoot spells to harm the player and can be defeated by the usual stomp. However, even if the player stomps a Magikoopa, its magic attack generally is still launched. Magikoopas are seen either standing on the ground, or riding brooms overhead.

Despite appearing in the last three installments, generic Magikoopas do not appear in Paper Mario: Sticker Star. However, Kamek makes his first appearance in the Paper Mario series in this game, and reappears in Paper Mario: Color Splash and Paper Mario: The Origami King.

In Mario & Luigi: Superstar Saga and its remake, Magikoopas appear in Bowser's Castle, which had been hijacked by Bowletta. These Magikoopas attack Mario and Luigi by shooting large, spinning rings of fire at them and they would also boost themselves or other enemies' health or increase their stats. They appear on the Adventure Field. Magikoopas sometimes fight with Sniper Bills and Chomp Bros.
Psycho Kamek also appears in Superstar Saga. He lives in Little Fungitown, and hypnotizes Luigi into thinking he is Mario, thus making him brave enough to go on a daring mission to save his brother, who is sick with Bean Fever. He is replaced by Dr. Toadley in the remake.
This game is also the debut of Magikoopas' modern white-brimmed caps. They are one of the few enemies in the game to not have stylized graphics. The sprite for these enemies are based on the Paper Mario art style, but their clothes are purple in the original game.

In the remake, Magikoopas reprise their role in the main story, all of which use Kamek's voice clips in battle. Magikoopas also appear as enemies and recruitable allies in Minion Quest: The Search for Bowser. They are flying troopers, and they attack enemies from their broom. Their Special Skill is Chain Shot. Like Red Magikoopas, Green Magikoopas, and White Magikoopas, they are weak against Bowser Jr.

Although no normal Magikoopas appear in Mario & Luigi: Partners in Time, Kamek plays an important role as Prince Bowser's attendant throughout the story. He serves as a boss of the Yoshi's Island segment of the game, being fought prior to the brothers entering Yoob's Belly.

In Mario & Luigi: Bowser's Inside Story, Bowser saves a group of imprisoned Magikoopas (one of whom is named Jerry) inside a cage in Princess Peach's ruined castle. After he rescues them, they'll teach Bowser a Special Attack called Magikoopa Mob, where he throws fireballs to the Magikoopa's wands to power their blasts towards the enemy. There are also enemy Magikoopas which resemble Fawful called Magifoofas. There is also a Magikoopa that helps Bowser after the player defeats him the first time (he also teaches him the punch and flame), nurses Bowser's wounds, and tells Bowser about the package Princess Peach sends.
In the game's remake, Magikoopas reprise their role as supporting protagonists in the main game, while Kamek, White Magikoopas, Green Magikoopas, and Red Magikoopas appear as playable allies in the game's side story featuring Bowser Jr. In addition, the same side story portrays Kamek as the Magikoopa that helped Bowser after being defeated by Mario the first time (which possibly means he is also the Magikoopa tending to Bowser and informs him of Peach's gift in the epilogue).

Magikoopas reappear in Mario & Luigi: Dream Team where they appear in the battle against the giant Bowser. They stand in a ring formation, with the one in the center talking, implying it is Kamek. They attack by combining their spells into a huge magic ball which they fire at Dreamy Luigi, who must knock it back with his hammer. They also help Bowser grow even bigger after his initial defeat. Kamek makes an appearance as the secondary antagonist of the game, often appearing alongside Bowser and Antasma, as well as the Elite Trio.

Several Magikoopas appear as spectators in the Bowser's Castle course in Mario Power Tennis.

Magikoopas are playable characters in both games of the Mario Baseball series. They use their scepters as their bats, and Red, Green, and Yellow Magikoopas appear as alternate color schemes for the game's playable Magikoopa. In Mario Superstar Baseball, Magikoopa has good fielding abilities, and some of them have average batting skills. However, all of them are very slow, and are poor pitchers. In Mario Super Sluggers, their pitching skills have greatly improved, but their batting skills are weaker than before. Magikoopas are still very good fielders, but their running skills are still very poor, with the Red Magikoopa having the slowest running skills (tied with King K. Rool). Magikoopas do not have good stamina, since they get exhausted rather quickly when they let up a few big runs. Ironically, the Red Magikoopa's bio states that it has good stamina, which contradicts with its actual pitching behavior. They share good chemistry with Boo, Bowser, Bowser Jr., and the Bros. They have bad chemistry with the Yoshis and the babies, in reference to their conflict with Kamek.
In Mario Superstar Baseball, they originate on Wario's team, but were made part of Bowser's team instead in Mario Super Sluggers.

Magikoopas (known here as Kameks) appear during the boss fight with Giant Kamek in Super Princess Peach. Here they appear flying on brooms, sometimes holding crystals that can be stolen if the Kamek is defeated.

Though Kamek has prominently appeared in the Mario Party series, the Magikoopa species only has a few minor appearances. In Mario Party 8, they appear in the Test for the Best minigame, holding up the 9,000 points sign. In Mario Party: Island Tour, Magikoopas act as background characters on the Kamek's Carpet Ride board. In Super Mario Party, a regular Magikoopa is one of the puzzles in the Toad's Rec Room minigame Puzzle Hustle.

In the Wii version of Mario & Sonic at the London 2012 Olympic Games, Kamek appears as an antagonist in Dream Equestrian, and also appears as a ? mark effect in London Party mode.
In the Nintendo 3DS version, a Magikoopa appears in Story Mode. Magikoopa first appears in the episode To the Ruins!, where it is found at Stonehenge searching for the lid of the Fog urn. Mario, Luigi, Toad, Sonic, Tails and Omega arrive and question Magikoopa about the fog, who promises to give them information if they can beat it in a challenge, which Sonic accepts. After Magikoopa loses BMX, it uses magic to fire Omega away and create a diversion before abandoning the search and leaving without telling the group anything. Magikoopa later appears at the opening ceremony for the Olympic Games. In the bonus episodes, Magikoopa, Lakitu and Goomba notice that Bowser is in a bad mood after giving him a bad introduction to London, and try to cheer him up by helping him win some events. Magikoopa first sets up a match for Bowser with Donkey Kong by luring him with bananas and hitting him with a Thwomp, and takes him to get some real bananas when he loses to Bowser. It then helps set up a match with Knuckles and Vector by transforming Lakitu and Dry Bones to look like Charmy and Espio as a distraction, and then stuns Knuckles and Vector using a Chain Chomp and a Piranha Plant. It then sets up a final match by transforming Goomba to look like Mario, and after Bowser wins and cheers up, Magikoopa celebrates with the other minions. A badge of Magikoopa can also be obtained from the badge machine.

Although no Magikoopas physically appear, a Magikoopa is mentioned several times in the Story Mode of Mario & Sonic at the Olympic Games Tokyo 2020. Dr. Eggman states that this Magikoopa's magic caused the Tokyo '64 to function, and later, Eggman Nega explains that he had the Magikoopa imbue the Excitement Battery he created with magic so that it would work, and that he then gave the battery to the Magikoopa to deliver to Luigi and Tails, though it is then revealed that the Magikoopa gave it to Larry Koopa.

Magikoopas reappear as enemies in Captain Toad: Treasure Tracker and its Nintendo Switch and Nintendo 3DS ports. They appear in Battle Tower Blitz, No Sleep at Magikoopa Keep, Toad Brigade to Magikoopa Keep!, and Mummy-Me Maze Forever. They behave the same in this game as they did in Super Mario 3D World, although defeating them rewards three coins.

Magikoopas make an appearance as enemies in Puzzle & Dragons: Super Mario Bros. Edition. They appear in five different colors, which include red, blue, green, yellow, and purple, and each color determines their attribute; Fire for red, Water for blue, Wood for green, Light for yellow, and Dark for purple. Magikoopas are much smaller in this game than in other appearances. 
Magikoopas mostly appear at the tower courses in World 8, and they also serve as the boss of World 8-Tower 2. Each Magikoopa has a skill that changes all Heart Orbs, along with the Orbs that they are weak against, to their own Orb attribute.
All Magikoopas offer above average HP and ATK, while their RCV is low.

Ordinary blue-robed Magikoopas are named Blue Magikoopas and are Water-attribute enemies, found primarily in the towers of World 8, first appearing in World 8-Tower 1.
As an enemy, a Blue Magikoopa attacks by firing a blast of blue magic at the screen, inflicting Water damage to the player's team. Their Skill, Water Trick, changes all Wood and Heart Orbs on the Orb field into Water Orbs. When defeated, it may occasionally drop a large coin worth 100 coins or a Grand Water Block of itself. It will always drop a Spiky Shell when defeated with a 10+ Combo attack.
Blue Magikoopas can be found in World 8-Tower 1, World 8-Tower 2, and World 8-Bowser's Castle.
As teammates, Blue Magikoopas have an HP rating of 5/6, an ATK rating of 5/6, and an RCV rating of 1/6. Their Max Lv. is 99. Their Water Trick Skill functions the same as it does when they appear as enemies. Blue Magikoopas use Spiky Shells and Grand Spiky Shells to raise their Skill levels. Blue Magikoopas may give RCV+ bonuses to other teammates when being depowered. Their Awoken Skill, Skill Boost, reduces the number of turns required to first use Skills when entering a course. 

In version 2.0 of Puzzle & Dragons: Super Mario Bros. Edition, the player can transform a Blue Magikoopa into three other forms in which another Magikoopa accompanies it: Blue/Red Magikoopas, Blue Magikoopas, and Blue/Yellow Magikoopas. All three forms share the same Skill and Skill Item requirements, and have an HP rating of 5/6, an ATK rating of 5/6, and an RCV rating of 1/6 (with the exception of Blue/Yellow Magikoopas, which has an HP rating of 6/6). 

Blue/Red Magikoopas can be created by transforming a Blue Magikoopa with six Fire Flowers. This duo is a Water/Fire attribute teammate, and its Awoken Skill, Twin Target, raises ATK and attacks two foes for each of this ally's attributes that the player clears four Orbs for.

Blue Magikoopas can be created by transforming a Blue Magikoopa with six Ice Flowers. This duo is a Water/Water attribute teammate, and its Awoken Skill, Water Boost, raises ATK of the player's Water attribute teammates when they clear a horizontal line of Water Orbs.

Blue/Yellow Magikoopas can be created by transforming a Blue Magikoopa with six Super Mushrooms. This duo is a Water/Light attribute teammate, and shares the same Awoken Skill as Blue/Red Magikoopas.

In the Super Mario Mash-up in Minecraft, Witches and Evokers are replaced by Magikoopas. To match the Super Mario theme, cauldrons are also replaced with small pipes and are now used for decoration and to store water.

Magikoopas make an appearance in Mario Kart Live: Home Circuit, using their magic to mirror a track in Magikoopa Mirage whenever players pass through the third gate in the course. They once again ride brooms.

Magikoopas appear as enemies in Mario + Rabbids Sparks of Hope, appearing in Barrendale Mesa and alongside Darkmess Bowser in Cursa's stronghold. Their glasses in this game are red, due to being under Cursa's control. In battle, Magikoopas can raise attack power of themselves and nearby enemies by 50%, and attack by firing explosive blasts similar to Bowser's Bowzooka. They also resist all Super Effects. While on the field, they ride on their brooms, but in battle, they float slightly above the ground.

In Super Mario Chess, Magikoopas appear as bishops on Bowser's team.

Magikoopas have curved, beak-like mouths like average Koopa Troopas, but with more pronounced noses and fangs; in addition, they also have claws. They all wear glasses and wizard robes that cover all their body, leaving sometimes only their feet uncovered. Underneath these robes they wear a black undershirt. Most wear wizard hats (though Kammy Koopa wears a witch's hat). Their clothes can be found in many different colors, such as yellow, white, gray, and green, though the most common is blue. Prior to Mario Party 8, the only parts of a Magikoopa's robe that were colored white were the sleeve rims, with only a few exceptions in the Mario & Luigi series. From Mario Party 8 onwards, all the Magikoopas' hats have been given white rims. Magikoopas can summon broomsticks to fly on, and they all have scepters to cast their spells. Their scepters originally had white shafts with a blue ring and a red ring forming the base of the small green jewel at the end. The current scepter design is of a yellow (supposedly golden) shaft with a larger red jewel set in the end.
In Super Mario Galaxy, they can turn into small white energy orbs to travel faster. They do this periodically during battle, making them harder to hit close-up.
Magikoopas are stated to have shells during a quiz in the Wii version of Mario & Sonic at the London 2012 Olympic Games, although they have never been seen without their robes. Additionally, Kamek, a Magikoopa, says in Mario & Luigi: Partners in Time the Mario Bros. are starting to "chap [his] shell" after taking Baby Bowser's treasures. In Mario & Luigi: Paper Jam, Battle Cards intended to cause damage to shelled enemies work on Kamek and Paper Kamek. In Mario Kart Tour, Kamek can also be used to win several badges which require challenges to be completed with characters wearing shells. In The Super Mario Bros. Movie, Kamek is shown to have a shell-shape hunchback under his robe.

Of all of Bowser's minions that were usurped by Cursa, Magikoopas are amongst the most troublesome - and it is not difficult to see why. They are POWERFUL magicians who are adept at enhancing and reinforcing their allies on the battlefield, timing their efforts wisely. Cursa has made them immune to all Super Effects.