Magmaarghs are a variant of Blarggs that first appeared in Super Mario Galaxy 2. They appear as large molten lava creatures with a huge mouth that attack by rising up from lava pools and biting down or opening their mouth, wading towards anything in front of them. Like their relative, the Magmaw, they seem to be mostly liquid, as they can pass through solid objects.

In Super Mario Galaxy 2, Magmaarghs mostly appear in Melty Monster Galaxy, being the titular monster. They also appear in Fleet Glide Galaxy and Bowser's Galaxy Generator. Magmaarghs do not move very much, mostly staying under the lava, arising to chomp down on anything in front of them. If Mario or Luigi gets chomped, he loses one wedge of health. In the Melty Monster Galaxy, they appear mostly where there are Pull Stars. In Bowser's Galaxy Generator, three of them appear during the Snake Block section. Here, the Snake Blocks split into two paths, where there is one Magmaargh per path and when the Snake Blocks come back together, one last one appears, where Mario (on Yoshi) must swallow a nearby Blimp Fruit to pass over the monstrous creature (or he needs to go out of the way onto one of the four platforms if he already lost it).

Magmaarghs later return as enemies in Super Mario 3D Land; they only appear in the lava pools of World 8-Bowser: Part 1 and Special 8-Bowser, passing perpendicularly through Mario's path. In this game, they are much smaller than in their first appearance. Magmaarghs cannot be defeated, even if the player is invincible. Sandmaarghs, sand variations that follow Mario or Luigi underground and pop out to chomp them, also debut in this game.

Magmaarghs return in New Super Mario Bros. U, New Super Luigi U, and New Super Mario Bros. U Deluxe. They only appear during the boss battle in Iggy's Volcanic Castle in New Super Mario Bros. U and Iggy's Swinging-Chains Castle in New Super Luigi U. Iggy can fire special magic beams with a skull design on them. First three beams appear, two green, one red; then when Iggy is hit he will fire five of them, three green, two red; and when Iggy Koopa is stomped twice, he manages to fire twice. When Iggy Koopa fires a red magic beam at the lava, the Magmaargh will emerge upon touching it. The Magmaargh then roars and attacks by moving towards the players in a wave-like movement. If Nabbit comes in contact with them, he will simply be bounced back like other large hazards.

Magmaarghs appear in Mario Party: Star Rush as obstacles in the minigame Lava Labyrinth.

Magmaarghs reappear in Super Mario Party Jamboree as obstacles in a Free-For-All minigame also featuring Fire Bars.

Magmaarghs appear for the first time in the Mario Golf series in Mario Golf: Super Rush. They appear in Bowser Highlands and the Volcano course of Trick Golf. It attracts a one-stroke penalty, and also makes a sound when the ball hits one.