Mallow is a major character in Super Mario RPG: Legend of the Seven Stars for SNES and its remake for Nintendo Switch. A member of the Nimbus species, he is the biological son of Queen Nimbus and King Nimbus, and initially believes himself to be a tadpole as the adoptive grandson of the Frog Sage. He is also the prince of Nimbus Land, as well as Mario's first partner in the game. In battle, Mallow is not especially strong physically; however, he has a strong command of magic, including the ability to heal. All of his special attacks are weather-based.

Mallow was born to the royal family in Nimbus Land, King and Queen Nimbus. However, while still an infant (before the game's beginning), Mallow was lost. He was eventually discovered near Tadpole Pond, by the wise yet hermitic Frog Sage. The Frog Sage removed the basket from the waters, discovering a little ball of puff inside. On the cloud child's belt, the name "Mallow" was inscribed. The Frog Sage rightly deduced that this was the young cloud person's name, and he decided to raise Mallow as his grandson. The old frog raised him as one of his own, and as such Mallow grew up believing he was a tadpole, despite his unusual appearance in relation to the tadpoles he grew up with. However, throughout his childhood, Mallow never felt like a normal tadpole - he did not have a tail, he was a bad jumper and a terrible swimmer; additionally, he was also much larger than all the other tadpoles.

One day, Mallow visited Mushroom Kingdom to buy a Cricket Pie for the Frog Sage. However, the Special Frog Coin he was given to buy it was stolen by Croco, a reptilian thief. Mallow attempted to chase him, but Croco was too fast. Mallow gave up and began to cry. A rainstorm started, revealing Mallow's unusual control over the weather.
Mario witnessed this and assisted Mallow. The two of them traveled to Bandit's Way to catch Croco. After chasing him, the two caught Croco and regained Mallow's Frog Coin after a battle.
Mallow thanked Mario and they returned to Mushroom Kingdom. The two of them rescued Mushroom Kingdom from the monsters it had been overrun with: Shymores and Claymorton, one of the members of the Smithy Gang, recovering a Star Piece in the process.
The Chancellor thanked Mario and Mallow, but revealed that he was worried about Smithy and his weapons. Mallow suggested that he and Mario go to Tadpole Pond to visit his grandfather, the Frog Sage, who might know what to do.
When they arrived, the Frog Sage told the two that they need to collect seven Star Pieces. Additionally, he revealed a secret he had been hiding: Mallow is not really a tadpole. Mallow was shocked by the news, but the Frog Sage told him that his real parents were out there, somewhere, and that he would be joining Mario to help him and to find his real family. Mallow, who had been expecting to stay at Tadpole Pond, nevertheless agreed, and he accompanied Mario on his adventure.
After traveling with Mario for a while, the team went to Nimbus Land, a city on a cloud inhabited by people who looked remarkably like Mallow. When they arrived, they noticed a commotion at the castle. Valentina was telling a group of citizens that she had found "Prince Mallow" after all the time he had been missing. She brought out Dodo, a large bird. Everyone believed that Dodo was indeed their missing prince. Mallow himself mentioned that it was interesting that there was a prince with the same name as him, not suspecting anything. He also suggested to Mario to pass by the area, citing that it was unimportant to the star search.
While in Nimbus Land, they visited Garro, a sculptor. There was a golden sculpture at the side of his room. Mallow noticed it and remarked that it looked identical to him. Garro said that it was the king of Nimbus Land when he was very young; then he turned around. He realized that Mallow was indeed the missing prince and that Dodo was an impostor, and sent them to the castle to stop Valentina. Mallow then found out that he was one of the Nimbus People and indeed their prince; he also finally managed to reunite with his true parents, King Nimbus and Queen Nimbus. Despite his opportunity to return to the throne and take care of princely matters, Mallow decided to continue traveling with Mario until their quest was over.
Mallow was last seen in the first of the many cutscenes generated by the Star Pieces spangling the Star Road during the game's ending sequence. He was here shown presenting himself to his people; the facts that he was dressed in a crown and cape indicate that he had by then taken up the role of prince once and for all.
Mallow also has a clone version of himself that Belome can transform into named "Mallow Clone".

Mallow is faithfully depicted in the Super Mario RPG: Legend of the Seven Stars arc in Super Mario-kun, although most of his story is left out from the adaptation (most notably, his journey to find his parents).
He is depicted with a torso and wears a sleeveless blouse, similarly to Garro.

Mallow appears as a spirit in Super Smash Bros. Ultimate. The Mallow spirit battle depicts Mallow as a white-colored Robin who often uses Thunder; this, combined with the Lightning item appearing in the battle, references Mallow's use of the Thunderbolt and Shocker special moves, while the battle taking place on the cloudy Magicant references Nimbus Land. Mallow is also represented by a gray Kirby in the Geno spirit battle.

Tetris 99 features an event with Super Mario RPG from November 9th, 11 PM PT to November 13th, 10:59 PM PT to promote the upcoming release of Super Mario RPG. The event includes a new theme for the game, which changes the music to themes from Super Mario RPG. It also features frog coins replacing the normal KO indicator and the tetriminos having stars emblazoned on them. Mallow appears alongside Mario, Princess Peach, Bowser, and Geno in the background.

Mallow is a Nimbus with an off-yellow coloration on his body, pink shoes, as well as blue and white striped pants. He has a pink stir of hair, beady eyes, and a brown belt with a light-blue buckle. Despite wearing pants, he does not actually have legs.

Before joining Mario, Mallow suffered from low self-esteem and was a bit of a crybaby at times; however, as they journeyed together, he built up his courage and proved himself to be a levelheaded member of the party on numerous occasions (such as when he held Mario back from unwisely attacking Bowyer). Mallow becomes very emotional multiple times in the game: namely, when he fails to apprehend Croco and return the Frog Sage's coin, when he finds out he is not a tadpole and the Frog Sage is not his real grandfather, when he finds his real parents' wish for him to come on on Star Hill, and when he finally meets his parents. Mallow looks up to Mario as a role model and admires his jumping skills, much like the other tadpoles do, which was how Mallow was raised. Even Mallow's own father, King Nimbus, enjoys the sight of Mario's jumping abilities.

Mallow is a spellcaster, granting him high stats in magic, but not in physical abilities. Mallow's HP count is the lowest, but his magic stats are among the best in the game, being similar to Princess Peach. Mallow's defense on both sides is above average, though, temporarily surpassing Mario's before Bowser joins the party. Mallow's offensive spells all hit groups, except for Shocker, making him useful for dispatching crowds. His offensive spells tend to consume fewer Flower Points than those of other characters, giving him an advantage regarding battle endurance. Mallow also has healing abilities in his arsenal that can be useful when Princess Peach is not available. Despite his melee shortcomings, Mallow's ultimate weapon, the Sonic Cymbals, is the third-strongest in the game. In addition, the Prince Pants, his ultimate armor, is tied with the Hero Shirt and Royal Dress as the strongest, not counting the Work Pants, Super Suit, and Lazy Shell, since they can be equipped by anyone.

Mallow, like all other party members in Super Mario RPG: Legend of the Seven Stars, learns a new move upon reaching certain levels. His special moves are:

Mario let me tag along to get back my stolen coin. He's tough, kind, and a really great guy. That crook-o-dile might've left town, so we'd better hurry and chase after him.   Mallow

We caught Croco and got my coin back! Good thing Mario is here. Now I've gotta get back to the Mushroom Kingdom item shop to finish the shopping Grandpa asked me to do.   Mallow

We beat Claymorton, who was a pretty tough boss, and got a strange star. Could it have something to do with this bad guy called "Smithy"? I'll try asking Grandpa at Tadpole Pond.   Mallow

Belome was pretty scary, but Mario and I beat it together. Then the water washes us away, and we fell down falls to Midas River. The good news is we're almost home at Tadpole Pond!   Mallow

I'm adventuring with Mario to find out about the stars that fell around the world. Also, where are my real parents? I hope Princess Peach is OK, wherever she landed. Next stop—Rose Town!   Mallow

We saw Bowser's Minions heading for his keep. Bowser talked big, but I dunno if he can actually get back to his keep while the big sword is stuck in it. Plus, the bridge is down...   Mallow

Arrows are raining down on Rose Town. Grandpa was right—these people need our help! There's also funny rumors about a living doll named Geno. Maybe we can get some answers in the forest.   Mallow

A Star Piece fell on Moleville, and a couple of kids named Dyna and Mite got trapped in the mines! But it's OK. Mario will save them.   Mallow