Mario Tennis Aces is a multiplayer sports game for the Nintendo Switch and the eighth installment in the Mario Tennis series. It is also the first game in the series since Mario Tennis: Power Tour on the Game Boy Advance to feature a story mode, in which Mario must advance through a number of missions and stop a powerful tennis racket, Lucien, from destroying the Kingdom of Bask, the game's setting. While the gameplay engine is based on that of Mario Tennis: Ultra Smash and features the return of its Classic Tennis mode, it introduces new techniques to the traditional tennis gameplay of the series to its Standard Tennis mode. One of the prime features in this game is an energy gauge which can be charged throughout the course of a match by rallying the ball. Energy grants the ability to slow down the time during a match in order to catch a ball more easily. Under certain conditions, it can also be used to stop time and launch the ball from a first-person perspective to the other side of the court through Zone Shots and Special Shots. These are powerful types of shots that can damage or break the opponent's racket if not countered correctly.
The game also offers expanded online features, mostly through tournaments and co-op challenges, where players can participate to unlock exclusive content. Additionally, since release, the game has been updated with new playable characters, story mode levels, modes of play, tournament features, as well as a rank classification.

As in a game of tennis, players have to hit the ball back and forth until one side misses it. In normal matches, players who earn a successful shot score 15 points; at 40 points, players earn a game point, and have to score another successful shot in order to win the game. A deuce commences if both sides are tied at 40 points, where they need to score a two-point advantage to win the game. There are two games in one set, with the number of sets depending on the rules of the match. A tiebreaker is used to settle the match if the players are constantly tied throughout the match. In tiebreakers, players score one point for each successful shot. Seven points are required to win the tiebreaker and, by extension, the match. If players obtain a 6-point tie, they need a two-point lead in order to win.
Matches can be played in singles, involving only two players, or doubles, involving two pairs of players. In every match, there is a server and a receiver, who switch sides at the start of every game. The server has to launch the ball on the opposite side of the court, otherwise it will be a fault. Two consecutive faults (double fault) will cause the opponent to score. The speed of the ball is briefly displayed at the top of the screen when it gets served. The ball has to stay within the boundaries of the field; if it lands out of it, the opponent will score. Landing the ball on the court's sidelines has the same effect in singles matches, but this is allowed in doubles.

Characters have an energy gauge that can be used to perform Zone Shots, Zone Speed, or Special Shots. The energy gauge can be increased by simple rallies, by charging shots, or by performing Trick Shots, which require proper timing to hit the ball back. Zone Shots can be performed upon reaching a rotating star point on the ground, and allow the player to aim their shot anywhere on the court using motion controls. The longer they take to aim, the more energy it depletes. When energy is fully depleted while in a Zone Shot, the stroke loses form, resulting the ball flying high in the air. Zone Speed allows the player to slow down time to allow them to reach a far-off shot in time. Special Shots can be performed from anywhere on the court and require a full energy gauge. Zone Shots and Special Shots are able to damage rackets. Rackets can withstand three Zone Shots or one Special Shot before breaking, and after being broken they are replaced with a new one, forcing the player to retire when they no longer have any usable racket. With proper stroke timing, these shots can be blocked, increasing the character's energy gauge and protecting their racket from damage.
In doubles, each pair shares one energy gauge, and if a player's racket breaks during a rally, that player's team immediately loses the point. Also in doubles, each player has their own racket counter. When playing in doubles, the match will end if just one player loses all of their rackets (no matter how many rackets that player's teammate has remaining) and that player's team immediately loses. Exclusive to doubles, the result screen also shows X marks in the sections where a player's racket took damage, and the X marks are colored as appropriate to show which opponent did the damage to that player's racket.
Other than the base style of gameplay, the game also includes a "simple rules" mode which excludes the new types of shots.

Shots can be charged to increase their power by pressing their corresponding button early before the player hits the ball. Max Charges result in powerful, quick shots that can push the opponent back. These can be countered with certain shots to reduce the push. In matches with standard rules, charging up a shot confers the player energy which can be used to perform Zone Shots and Special Shots. However, simple rules only allow basic tennis shots.

Adventure Mode acts as the game's story mode, featuring cutscenes and levels like a typical Super Mario game. It is revealed that the game takes place in the Kingdom of Bask, which was destroyed in ancient times by a powerful tennis racket named Lucien. After being discovered and stolen from the Bask Ruins by Wario and Waluigi, Lucien is rewakened and proceeds to possess them and Luigi during a match on Marina Stadium. Lucien's motivation is to seek five Power Stones scattered throughout the kingdom, which conceal his true power. Under the guidance of Aster, a mysterious voice, Mario sets forth to retrieve the five Power Stones before Lucien and defeat him once and for all. On his journey, he must complete various missions and level up to become stronger.
Toad accompanies Mario throughout the jorney, acting as his spokesperson, as Mario does not talk. After selecting a mission on the map, a short dialogue between Toad and other involved parties will commence, then the player can begin the mission. Mario can exit to the world map or (as of version 1.2.0) retry the mission if the player pauses or fails it.
For more information about this mode's contents, see below.

Tournaments are successions of matches (here also called rounds) in which the player can challenge computer opponents or online worldwide opponents in an 8-player bracket. They return from previous Mario Tennis games after being absent in Mario Tennis: Ultra Smash. Tournament matches feature up to three sets, each divided into two games. If players are tied by the end of these sets, there will be a tiebreaker that decides the winner of the match.

In computer tournaments, the player can choose to compete for the Mushroom, Flower, and Star Cups, each representing a different difficulty level. Computer tournaments consist of one preliminary round, semifinals, and finals. Each cup has a number of possible opponents that are selected from the game's base roster; in other words, they cannot be characters added after the game's release or characters in alternate costumes. The character used for winning one of these cups receives a small crown next to their name and under their icon on the character selection screen of that cup.
The table below lists all cups with the corresponding rules and opponents.

Players can connect to the internet to compete against other human players in online tournaments. In order to participate, players need to have the latest version of the game and a Nintendo Switch Online subscription. They can participate in the standard class, simple class, or (as of December 2018) the doubles class. For the doubles class, the player can pick a partner either locally or online.
As of December 2018, online tournaments consist of one preliminary round followed by a semifinal and a final round, similarly to how the COM tournaments are structured. Originally, tournaments featured three preliminary rounds instead of only one. In every online tournament match, there is one set with two games and (in the standard and doubles classes) each player has only two rackets.
Players can obtain rating points by winning matches, or lose points otherwise. The amount of points earned or lost in a match depends on the player's performance. Rating points determine a rank from D- to A+, which are used to match players of similar proficiency. If someone has rank B (2,500 points) or higher, they will start each tournament from the semifinals. When players enter a month's tournament for the first time, the points they had obtained during their last online tournament period played are rounded and kept for the current tournament period, along with their rank. Each tournament period keeps track of player statistics such as tournament wins, round wins, and round losses, with the latter two being calculated in a win ratio.
When the player wins a championship, they are congratulated with a trophy resembling the Special Cup from other Super Mario titles. However, unlike in COM tournaments, characters that are used to win an online tournament are not given a crown on the character selection screen.
Between July 2018 and July 2019, playing at least one match in an online tournament each month awarded the player with an additional character as a participation bonus. Starting with the January 2019 tournament, the player can also earn Participation Points, which can reward alternate costumes.
If a player disconnects or is disconnected during a match, the match will be forfeited and the opponent will win. Players who forfeit the match in this way too many times will not be permitted to participate in the rankings.

Co-op Challenges were added as part of the version 2.0.0 update. In this mode, four players (which can be local and online) participate in a limited-time online event to earn points that can unlock alternate costumes and colors for playable characters.
The player can wait 60 seconds for the console to search and connect to other players. If not enough players are found in this timeframe, the game will substitute them with computer players. The player can choose to keep searching for online players for 180 more seconds.
For more information about this mode's contents, see below.

This mode allows players to play custom matches at their leisure. Up to four players can join in Free Play, both locally and online. By pressing the  or  button, players access a menu where they can change the match rules, with the following options:

1 - In the "Change Rules" menu, the player can press the  button to set up their own selection of courses, where they can also turn hazards on or off for each course.

In this mode, players can use motion controls to play tennis. This mode is played solely with the left or right JoyCon, which may be chosen depending on the player's dominant hand. During matches, the camera is positioned lower than usual. There are multiple features in Swing Mode, all of which only allow simple tennis rules (i.e. no Zone Shots, Special Shots or Zone Speed).

Matches can be played with a regular ball, just like in Free Play. Most rule options from Free Play are also present here, though the player cannot adjust the Play Style and, by extension, the KO Loss. One added option is to activate the challenge system, wherein the player is allowed to challenge the decision that the ball was shot out of the court.
Up to four local players can join a match in Swing Mode.
While rallying a ball, players can hit it a bit early to send it towards the corner on the opposite side from their racket (pull shot) or a bit late to send it towards the corner on the same side as their racket (push shot). If the ball is hit too early or too late, it will be sent at a low speed (similarly to leap shots), allowing the opponent to strike it with a flat shot and return it faster than usual.
If players have enabled the challenge system, they will be allowed to challenge whether the ball bounced very close to the court's bounds and was called out by the judge. During a challenge, the camera zooms into the spot where the ball bounced, showing precisely if it landed in or out of the court. If the ball has merely touched the boundary line, it is considered to be in the court. If the challenge is successful, the call will be overturned and the opponent will receive no points, but if it is not, the opponent will receive their points and the player will lose one challenge. The player can incorrectly challenge a call three times, after which they can no longer challenge a call during a match.

Matches can also be played with a large-sized ball, which is slower and easier to hit than a regular ball. All basic rules and features seen in regular ball matches apply here.

In this feature, players can play the Boo Hunt and Shy Guy Train Tussle minigames both cooperatively and competitively. Players can earn different high scores for each mode of play, and in cooperative mode, they also receive a rank based on their high score. By pressing the  or  button while highlighting a minigame, players can view the rules of that minigame.

Similarly to Mega Ball Rally from Mario Tennis: Ultra Smash, players have to rally a ball as long as possible. The game can be played with up to four players.
The ball starts out large-sized and moves slowly. With every 10 rallies, the ball's size decreases while its speed increases, changing colors to reflect this. If the ball lands on the sidelines of the court, it is not considered out, even if the game is played in singles. The game is over once one of the players/teams misses the ball. No high scores are recorded for this feature.

This feature enables secondary players to join or leave the game by synchronizing different JoyCons with the game.

In the Settings, the player can adjust miscellaneous functions in the game. These include:

Player controls can also be changed in the character selection screen by pressing  as well as the character's dominant hand by pressing .

Mario Tennis Aces features 30 playable characters, consisting of 16 characters available at launch and 14 characters made available post-release as online tournament participation bonuses. Of these characters, Spike, Chain Chomp, Blooper, Boom Boom, Pauline, Kamek, Dry Bones, and  Fire Piranha Plant are newly playable to the Mario Tennis series, with Chain Chomp, Pauline, and Fire Piranha Plant also making their overall playable debuts. A number of characters return as playable to the Mario Tennis series after being absent from multiple installments; namely, Birdo is playable for the first time since the Nintendo 64 installment, while Koopa Troopa, Koopa Paratroopa, Shy Guy, and Petey Piranha are playable for the first time since Mario Power Tennis. In addition, Luma is playable for the first time in a home console Mario Tennis installment, after previously being playable in Mario Tennis Open. Some characters have unlockable aesthetic variations.
Like in previous installments, characters are split into categories of types.

Post-release characters, with few exceptions, each have unique traits.
Mario is the only playable character for the majority of the Adventure mode (Peach is also playable in Lucien Cup Finals), and none of his variations available in other modes are usable. Players can, however, select from multiple rackets as they are unlocked in the mode.

Marina Stadium is the starting court, and other playable courts are unlocked for Free Play by completing levels in Adventure Mode. Like in Mario Power Tennis, some courts contain hazards that can be toggled on or off. Prior to version 2.2.0, a court selection screen for Free Play was absent, and courts are chosen at random; however, Custom lets the player choose to set the selection of stages.

In some ruins within the Kingdom of Bask, Wario and Waluigi stumble upon a tennis racket named Lucien. As they decide over who gets to use it, Lucien suddenly envelops them both in a mysterious light.a
After Mario and Peach beat Bowser and Bowser Jr. in a tennis match and take the championship,b Wario and Waluigi arrive with Lucien, offering it to Mario and co. as a present. After Luigi takes Lucien, to everyone's horror, he is immediately corrupted by the racket along with Wario and Waluigi, which causes a big storm on the stadium. Mario and Toad go to Bask Ruins, and after beating a Dry Bones in a tennis match, gain entry to the Temple of Bask. There, a mysterious voice who introduces himself as Aster tells Mario that many years ago, Lucien destroyed the Kingdom of Bask, and its king managed to strip Lucien of its power and divided the power between five Power Stones. Over time, though, the room fell to ruin, and Wario and Waluigi stole Lucien oblivious to its true powers. Aster then tasks Mario to go and get the five Power Stones before Lucien does.
Mario manages to take the Power Stones from Piranha Plant Forest, Mirage Mansion, and Snowfall Mountain; however, the possessed Wario and Waluigi beat him to the Power Stones in Savage Sea and Inferno Island. Lucien then declares a tennis war at Marina Stadium that pits Peach and Daisy against Wario and Waluigi, and Mario against Luigi, which Team Mario wins. Bowser then steals Lucien and returns to the Temple of Bask, where he fuses into Bowcien and challenges Mario to one last battle. Mario wins, destroying Lucien as well as the temple and receiving thanks from Aster before he disintegrates. Everyone then celebrates Mario's victory (though Wario and Waluigi express shame for having to destroy Lucien) as the credits roll.
In a post-credits scene, Mario writes an autograph on the camera, with the marker squeaking the first seven notes of the Super Mario Bros. overworld theme.

In Adventure Mode, Mario has to travel in a hub world and complete missions. While some of them are regular tennis matches, Adventure Mode has a lot of other missions, such as challanges where Mario needs to return the ball until he gets a certain amount of points. It also features boss battles, where different objects need to be shot on bosses with the tennis racket to defeat them. Additionally, the level selection appears to be based on that of the New Super Mario Bros. games, with red panels indicating an unfinished level and blue panels indicating a completed level, with the name of the level being shown when Mario stands on one.

Throughout his journey, Mario can obtain rackets of different stats. All unlocked rackets are stored in a queue that can be viewed in the Stats menu. Each racket unlocked has better stats than the last and takes the front position in the queue. If one of Mario's rackets breaks during a mission, the next one in the queue will take its place until he has no more rackets, signifying that the mission has been lost. By default, these rackets are ordered from the strongest to the weakest (i.e. from the newest to the oldest unlocked), but the player can change their order in the Stats menu.
The following are Mario's rackets, with the mission where they are obtained mentioned under their name.

Unlike their playable versions, they cannot perform Trick Shots and Special Shots, aside from Wario, Waluigi, and Luigi. All of the opponents who were not playable in the initial release are given generic tennis rackets with a black grip, matching colors, and without an emblem.

In Co-op Challenges, four players cooperate to obtain a number of points in a limited amount of time. At the end of a challenge, the points earned by all participants are totaled and awarded to everyone. Once the player's total score surpasses a certain amount of points, they unlock a new alternate costume or color for the character that the event is themed around (i.e. Boo in Boo Hunt). In addition, they earn a different title within a Co-op Challenge event for each surpassed goal; for example, the player is a "Veteran Boo Hunter" if they complete the 2,500 point goal in Boo Hunt.

Boo Hunt uses Swing Mode controls. In this event, players use tennis balls to hit Boos on the opposing side of the court to eliminate them, earning coins in the process. If the Boos reach the center of the court, they will steal some coins from the group total. Small mirrors that line the center of the court shoot tennis balls for the players to hit. Some Boos have an orange glow, and when a player hits them their next ball will be large, allowing them to hit more Boos at once. There are three stages, and when the group total reaches a certain threshold of coins they can proceed to the next stage when time runs out. Hitting Boos will also increase the Frenzy bar. When the Frenzy bar is filled up, Frenzy Time will activate. King Boo will appear and hover around the court, and all players will continuously receive tennis balls to hit him to earn more coins. He will disappear when either his health bar or the Frenzy bar is depleted.
Different stages have different hazards. Usually, the group of Boos slowly move towards the center of the court. In some stages, they assemble into set formations, and after the players hit the ball at them, they re-assemble into a new formation. Sometimes, the lights turn off, making it hard to see the Boos. Two glow-in-the-dark Boos also appear, and if a player hits one of them, they will be able to control their mirror to shine a light at the Boos that will halt them in their tracks. Other times, pieces of furniture will fly around the room, making it hard to hit the Boos, and Gold Mushrooms will appear, which can be hit to earn coins.
In version 2.1.0, Boo Hunt is permanently added to Special Games in Swing Mode.

The player's initial title in this Co-op Challenge is "Beginning Boo Hunter".

Yoshi's Ring Shot uses traditional button controls. In this event, all four players must work together to reach a high score by hitting the tennis ball through the colored rings. Each ring has four different colors based on the colored Yoshis being playable in this challenge only. If a Yoshi hits the tennis ball through a ring of the same color, it receives more points by doing so. The player can also obtain more points by shooting a ball through multiple rings. The smaller the ring, the more points the player earns. When a Zone Shot or Special Shot is triggered, the player earns double/triple the amount of points. To increase the Frenzy bar, players must keep a rally to increase points and activate Frenzy Time once it is full. During Frenzy Time, all the rings turn into a rainbow color, which are worth more points. In the last 30 seconds of the clock, a special flower-shaped ring appears, which is also worth more points than regular-colored rings. Hitting the flower-shaped ring causes the ring to move to a different location each time, and by increasing combos, players can earn more points and fill up Frenzy bar faster.
In version 3.0.0, Yoshi's Ring Shot is permanently added to the new Ring Shot mode.

The player's initial title in this Co-op Challenge is "Hungry Yoshi".

Shy Guy Train Tussle uses Swing Mode controls. In this event, players have to retrieve as many coins as possible from a band of Shy Guys who have stolen them and are trying to escape by train. To earn coins, players must use snowballs to defeat Shy Guys (who are either on the train or around the train) or destroy the train's freight consisting of crates and barrels. Stationary cannons in the background shoot snowballs for players to hit. There are eight stages, and after the group total reaches a certain threshold of coins, they can proceed to the next stage when time runs out. Hitting Shy Guys will also increase the Frenzy bar. When the Frenzy bar is filled up, Frenzy Time will be activated once the current stage is cleared. Shy Guys will then jump in from the background, forming tall towers by stacking on top of each other, and all players will continuously receive snowballs to hit them to earn more coins. Defeating a tower of Shy Guys and destroying the crate on top of them grants players a key to opening one chest full of coins. Any remaining Shy Guys will leave once the Frenzy bar is depleted. Frenzy Time can be activated up to three times, and each time, one additional tower of Shy Guys is present for players to defeat. 
Train layouts and Shy Guys tend to vary slightly between stages, constantly providing players with a different challenge when trying to collect coins. Shy Guys may come in singles or in stacks, as well as larger variants or shield-holding ones; the latter two variations require two hits to defeat them. Some Shy Guys float across the screen with the help of balloons and carry large amounts of coins in crates. Often, players will encounter different kinds of chests as part of the train's freight, which are opened on different conditions. For example, some chests require players to defeat a certain number and color of Shy Guys in order to open them, while other require players to uncover a key hidden inside of a crate.
Each stage also has a certain quota for players to achieve in order to earn extra coins. Once players fulfill a stage's quota, they will earn a large sum of coins which are added to the total threshold. Some crates hold large amounts of extra coins as well as power-ups such as Super Mushrooms, Ice Flowers, or Bob-ombs for players to use. The power-ups can be used to enhance the effect of their snowballs, with the Super Mushroom making the ball larger and able to destroy sturdier crates or barrels in one hit, the Ice Flower splitting the ball into four, and the Bob-omb being able to destroy a large portion of the train's freight.
A large Black Shy Guy appears as a boss in the fourth and eighth stages, wearing a yellow bandana in the former and a red bandana in the latter. Players must defeat him both times in order to successfully complete the Co-op Challenge. As players try to hit him with snowballs, he walks around while occasionally jumping to certain locations on or in front of the train. At one point, he throws Bob-ombs at each of the players which can be knocked back at him to deal more damage than usual. In the fourth stage, players simply have to deplete his entire health bar in order to defeat him. In the final stage, as they fully deplete his health bar, he initiates one final attack in which he throws a Mega Bob-omb that must be knocked back to him by all players in order to defeat him. Once he is defeated, he drops keys which unlock chests that completely fill the threshold of coins needed to complete the stage, thus signaling a successful end to the mission.
In version 3.1.0, Shy Guy Train Tussle is permanently added to Special Games in Swing Mode.

The player's initial title in this Co-op Challenge is "Fledgling Ranger".

The following gallery shows possible stage variations in this Co-op Challenge.

Prior to the game's release date, a free demo titled Mario Tennis Aces: Online Tournament Demo was released on the Nintendo eShop on May 24, 2018. This demo included a pre-launch online tournament, as well as the ability to practice with CPU players. The tournament allowed players to play as Mario, Peach, Yoshi, and Bowser, with Waluigi, Toad, Spike, Rosalina, and Chain Chomp becoming available as players earned points, for a total of nine playable characters. All tournament participants could receive an alternate costume for Mario that dresses him in his usual clothes (effectively making him appear identical to his appearance in Mario Tennis: Ultra Smash), usable in the full game.

Another free demo titled Mario Tennis Aces: Special Demo or Mario Tennis Aces: Special Online Demo was downloadable between April 26 and May 3, 2019, but only playable from April 26 to April 28, 2019. Upon downloading it, the player received a code for a free seven-day subscription to the Nintendo Switch Online service. Compared to the previous demo, this demo had some changes and additions. It featured a different title screen, different unlockable characters, simple class, Co-op Challenge mode (where Yoshi's Ring Shot was playable, and the blue, red, and yellow Yoshis could be unlocked for use in both the demo and the release version), and other features introduced in the full game as of version 2.3.0 (new adjustable control options and a revamped online tournament). The character unlock criteria was also changed, requiring the player to simply play a set number matches (including both computer and online matches) to unlock each character instead of earning points in tournaments. Likewise, Mario's alternate costume could be unlocked by participating in a match either online or offline.

Mario Tennis Aces has received multiple updates after launch, which added new content, character balancing, and bug fixes. Notable changes unlisted in the patch notes are written in italics.

An update was released on June 28, 2018 (PT). The following changes were made:

An update was released on July 19, 2018 (PT). The following changes were made:

An update was released on July 31, 2018 (PT). The following changes were made:

An update was released on September 19, 2018 (PT). The following changes were made:

An update was released on October 10, 2018 (PT). The following changes were made:

An update was released on November 30, 2018 (PT). The following changes were made:

An update was released on December 13, 2018 (PT). The following changes were made:

An update was released on January 30, 2019 (PT). The following changes were made:

An update was released on February 28, 2019 (PT). The following changes were made:

An update was released on April 14, 2019 (PT). The following changes were made:

An update was released on May 31, 2019 (PT). The following changes were made:

Mario Tennis Aces received generally positive reviews from critics. Praise was directed at the visuals and many welcomed new additions of gameplay, but minor criticism was directed at customization and the story mode, with some considering the latter not being rewarding or satisfying enough. The Swing Mode also received mixed reception, with points of contention directed at its responsiveness. The game currently holds a score of 75 on Metacritic based on 84 reviews, and a score of 73.38% on GameRankings based on 37 reviews.
Tristan Ogilvie of IGN gave the game a score of 7.5/10, praising the visuals, the court gimmicks, and the multiplayer mode, but criticized the story mode (considering it bare-bones, with nothing making it a fresh and satisfying experience), and also criticized the way local multiplayer works, stating "The biggest problem with Mario Tennis Aces'[s] Adventure mode is how poorly it incentivises you to keep playing. I had completed all 27 of its levels and unlocked all of its courts and rackets by the time I was on level 34, which was around a half a dozen hours of game time. Out of curiosity, I replayed a number of the challenges and boss fights several more times over to grind my way up to level 55, but was rewarded with absolutely nothing aside from incremental boosts to Mario's stats, thus making the existing challenges even easier. With no New Game+ or more challenging versions of its levels to unlock, or even the option of playing through it with a different character, Mario Tennis Aces'[s] Adventure mode becomes increasingly simple and repetitive the more time you put into it." In a more positive review, Mike Diver of Nintendo Life gave the game an 8/10, praising what he believed to be vast improvements over its Wii U predecessor Mario Tennis: Ultra Smash, stating "Where [Mario Tennis:] Ultra Smash's extras were a pure Monkey Island's worth of living without that particular piece of junk – here's your context, kids – [Mario Tennis] Aces stuffs its kit bag with activities until the zip's positively pinging off across the locker room like a smartly volleyed can of energy drink. Not everything is evenly fleshed out, but whatever your preferential way to play, there's plenty to get stuck into, both solo and with pals." In a slightly more lukewarm review, Justin Clark of GameSpot gave the game an 7/10, praising the game's new playing mechanics over past games as well as the story mode's incentive to teach players of the new mechanics, but had mixed to somewhat positive feelings about the story mode, stating "The story itself is ridiculous, but ridiculous in that very specific, quirky way Nintendo has been getting away with for decades. During the Mushroom Kingdom's annual tennis tournament, an evil tennis racket--yes, really--named Lucien takes possession of Luigi and flies off to find five Power Stones that will help him take over the world." He was also more critical of the online play, panning a stark lack of features as his main issue.

By December 31, 2021, the game had sold 4.28 million units worldwide, making it the best-selling game in the Mario Tennis series.

The Play Nintendo website features a skill quiz, a personality quiz, and an activity based on Mario Tennis Aces.

The Special Chance Shot markers from Mario Tennis: Ultra Smash, needed to perform the Ultra Smash, were featured in the announcement trailer. The animation Mario performed there was also the same one used for those kinds of shots. In the final game, however, those Chance Shot markers were rather replaced with a rotating star marker, similar to the ones featured in Mario Tennis and Mario Power Tennis, and Zone Shots replaced Ultra Smashes, while retaining their character animations at least in the case of Mario.
The HUD icons for Mario, Luigi, Wario, and Waluigi originally used their traditional outfit. Various pre-release footage of Marina Stadium had different cosmetic screen animations in banners, and the character name in the court's floor had a different font (this font is used in the final game when playing in online modes, with the user nickname on the floor). The Ancient Altar court used in Forest Monster was originally a selectable court.
Originally, Daisy's final entrance pose showcased her with her mouth closed via a Nintendo Treehouse Log post. In the final game, her mouth is open.

a - As depicted in the opening introduced in version 3.0.0.
b - As depicted in the opening prior to version 3.0.0.