Mario & Sonic is a series of crossover sports games featuring characters from Nintendo's Super Mario franchise and Sega's Sonic the Hedgehog franchise. This series marked the first time Mario and Sonic ever appeared together in a video game.
The series began when Sega acquired the license to create video games based on the Olympic Games, intending to create such a game featuring characters from its well-known Sonic the Hedgehog franchise. Due to the atmosphere of competitive sportsmanship the Olympics had to offer, Sega received approval from Nintendo to include Super Mario characters in the game as well. The first three games in the series were published by Nintendo in Asia and by Sega in other regions, the fourth and fifth games were published by Nintendo worldwide, and the sixth game was published by Sega worldwide.
Since the start of the series with Mario & Sonic at the Olympic Games (set at the 2008 Summer Olympics), a Mario & Sonic game was released for every Olympic Games until the 2018 Winter Olympics in Pyeongchang, South Korea, as Ubisoft acquired the rights to make video games for it before Sega could. There have been no new games released in the series since Mario & Sonic at the Olympic Games Tokyo 2020, as in 2020, the International Olympic Committee did not renew its licensing deal and allowed it to lapse in order to focus on other prospects such as non-fungible tokens and esports.

Not including supporting characters, the series has spawned a total of 43 playable characters - 22 from the Super Mario franchise, 20 from the Sonic the Hedgehog series, and Mii characters. Of those, 21 of them, including the Miis, have been fully playable across all events in each of their appearances (barring the Nintendo 3DS games, which limit all characters to specific events). The other 23 have been playable as "Guest" characters in a single event only in all of their appearances. Listed in the table below are which characters appear in each individual installment.

1 - Planned but cut

Characters in this classification have a roughly equal balance of speed, acceleration, power, skill, and stamina. 

Characters in this classification have high speed and acceleration, but poor skill, power, and stamina. 

Characters in this classification have high power and stamina, but have poor speed, acceleration, and skill. 

Characters in this classification have high skill and an average balance of speed, acceleration, and stamina, but are weak in power. Prior to Mario & Sonic at the Olympic Games Tokyo 2020, this category was named "Skill".

Following the release of Mario & Sonic at the Olympic Games, Sega published Sonic at the Olympic Games, a Java-based mobile phone game that features only characters from the Sonic the Hedgehog franchise competing at the 2008 Beijing Olympics.
Sega would publish another mobile title shortly after the release of Mario & Sonic at the Olympic Winter Games, called Sonic at the Olympic Winter Games, this time on iOS. It similarly featured Sonic the Hedgehog elements but no Super Mario elements appearing at the 2010 Winter Olympics. It was taken down from the App Store a short time after release, with no reason given.
Another game called Sonic at the Olympic Games, this time set during the 2020 Tokyo Olympics, was released worldwide for iOS and Android on May 7, 2020.