The Mario Bros.' House, also known as Mario's House or Mario's Pad, is a modest, cozy house that appears in some games of the Super Mario franchise. Though its appearances are mostly found in earlier, typically spin-off games and installments, it does make occasional appearances in the modern-day series in games such as Paper Mario: Color Splash. Throughout the games, the layout as well as the location of the house seem to change, although it always provides a minor role in the storyline, particularly the prologue. The house can actually be explored in Mario & Luigi: Superstar Saga and Mario & Luigi: Superstar Saga + Bowser's Minions, in which it contains a bathroom, upstairs bedroom, and kitchen. More often than not, however, the house has one room, a living area, with the interior seldom explored.

While Mario Bros. takes place in the New York sewer system, versions of the game released on Atari consoles state that gameplay is specifically located in Mario and Luigi's house.

The first scene of Super Mario Bros.: Peach-hime Kyūshutsu Dai Sakusen! takes places in what appears to be the living room of the house. Mario plays a video game on a Family Computer late at night, to Luigi's chagrin, who goes off to bed. On the screen, the player character is replaced by Princess Peach, escaping from Super Mario Bros. enemies through the television. Bowser emerges from the television, and he knocks Mario through a hole in the floor and brings Peach back through the television. Before Mario can give chase, a "Game Over" screen stops him. Luigi, awake, checks the disturbance and rejects Mario's story. After Luigi leaves, Mario finds the Brooch that the princess was wearing around her neck, holding it tightly and reassured that the encounter was real.

Mario's home is shown several times in the Club Nintendo comic series. It makes its first full appearance in "Süße Weihnachten." As the comic is set around Christmas, the house is decorated in a Christmas-like style, and it also has a Christmas tree. It is a very small house with apparently only one room, which resembles the version seen in Super Mario RPG: Legend of the Seven Stars. At the time of the comic's setting, Mario is not at home, but the door is opened. Bowser takes this chance to steal some sweets.

In Super Mario: Im Rausch der Geschwindigkeit, not much of the house is seen, but it appears to be much larger than in its previous comic appearance. It also has a bathroom (just like in the later comic Super Mario: Die Verwandlung). The fact that it is multistory may imply that Mario lives in an apartment during the events of this comic.

Super Mario: Coole Klänge shows for the first time that Mario and Luigi live in the same house. The comic also shows a radio, a saxophone, and several guitars in their home.

The story Super Mario: Verloren in der Zeit reveals the location of the house, Pilzgasse 13, which translates to "Mushroom Alley 13." Another possible translation would be "Mushroom Way"–the area near the house in Super Mario RPG: Legend of the Seven Stars, though this similarity is probably coincidental. The house in the comic is very big compared to its counterpart in the games, and it is covered with ivy. Not much is known about the inside, except that Mario has a TV.

Finally, the house is shown again in Warios Weihnachtsmärchen. In this comic, it is painted white and has a red door that reads "MARIO" in large letters. Nothing is known about it otherwise, except that it is decorated similarly to the house in Süße Weihnachten.

In Super Mario Kart adapatation of Kodansha's Super Mario manga, Mario and Luigi construct karts outside their home after accidentally breaking an item of the king's while plumbing.

In Super Mario RPG: Legend of the Seven Stars and its Nintendo Switch remake, the house is named Mario's Pad and is connected to Vista Hill to the west and Mushroom Way to the east. It has a sign that reads "Pipe House", which is changed to "Mario House" in the remake, and sits in a small forested area with a Save Block. The interior of the house is a single room with a bed, a Fungi Light, a cuckoo clock, and a change of clothes hanging on the wall. Outside, several large wrenches are hanging up on the side of the house. Additionally, the house has a huge pipe sticking out of the roof, which Mario falls through after Exor crashes into Bowser's Keep. After visiting the Three Musty Fears, Dry Bones hides his flag under Mario's bed.

The intro of Wrecking Crew '98 shows Mario returning home from a vacation. Bowser has been conducting a constructing campaign of building high-rises in the Mushroom Kingdom, one of which casts a large shadow on Mario's house which wilts his flowers. He then enters his house to retrieve his blue hammer to demolish the building.

In Paper Mario, the house is named Mario's House and is located a short distance to the west of Princess Peach's Castle, though it can be reached only via a Warp Pipe in Toad Town. It has a secret basement that Luigi had added to the house, as he thought Mario would not find his diary there. Mario is able to check his battle statistics (as well as other statistics) and his mail here; he is even able to rest in his bed. Mario can visit his house whenever he wants to, and he is able to see Luigi doing something different every time, whether it be standing outside or writing in his diary.
In Paper Mario: The Thousand-Year Door, the house does not change much, but it has a red and green theme, such as the red and green coffee mugs and toothbrushes. Although only a small portion of it is visible, a full recreation of the bedroom as it appeared in Paper Mario can be seen in the interior. The house can only be seen during the opening and ending sequences, and can not be fully explored like in the first game.
In Super Paper Mario, the house is seen in the opening sequence; Mario has pictures of his partners from the previous two games, but the house is otherwise unchanged. This time, it is named the Mario Bros.' House, as titled by its theme.
Unused data in Paper Mario: Sticker Star indicates that the house was possibly planned to appear in the game, but was later scrapped.
The Mario Bros.' House reappears in the opening sequence of Paper Mario: Color Splash, when Princess Peach and Toad come to speak with Mario about the letter they received. Although the exterior is somewhat similar to previous games, the inside is completely different, looking more like the interior in Super Mario RPG: Legend of the Seven Stars. It is shown to be on one side of a small river.
In the Nintendo Switch remake of Paper Mario: The Thousand-Year Door, the house's appearance is largely the same as in the original game. However, the interior has been redesigned slightly to better match its appearance in Paper Mario; additionally, the world map from said game is pinned up on the wall. Like in Super Paper Mario, a picture of Mario's partners from the first game is visible, and during the ending sequence, a picture of his new partners is added next to it. The mailbox now opens up by opening the entire front without a slit as opposed to mail being delivered through the slit; the outgoing flag additionally goes up after Parakarry has delivered mail.

Mario is able to sleep in his house, thereby fully recovering his HP, FP, and Star Power. He is also able to check his letters, which are put on his desk. After getting the Super Boots, Mario is able to access Luigi's secret basement and read Luigi's Diary. He is also able to check his statistics on a blackboard, which include:

If Mario has not yet done any of the things above when reading the board, the corresponding entry will show as "???"
Goombario's tattle of Mario's House states: "It's your house! Cool! Nice landscaping! I like my house, but yours is even nicer. Did you do the decorating yourself?"
The in-game map description states: "Mario and Luigi live here, but Luigi looks after the house. Here you can recover HP and FP or read letters sent to Mario."

Dr. Mario's house (as he is an "alter-ego" of Mario) is seen in the beginning scene of the story mode in Dr. Mario 64.

In Mario Party 3 on Waluigi's Island, there are remains of Luigi's house, destroyed by a Piranha Plant working for Waluigi.

In Mario & Luigi: Superstar Saga, Mario and Luigi's house is seen in the opening where the worried Toad arrives to tell the Mario Bros. that Princess Peach's voice had been stolen. This version has a kitchenette, a loft that has the two brothers' beds, a big portrait of Princess Peach, and a bathroom.
Outside, the house is pale yellow in color and has a red roof, a Star antenna, and a chimney resembling a pipe. Peach's Castle is also able to be seen from the home.
Like in Super Mario RPG: Legend of Seven Stars, the music is an arrangement of the Ground Theme from Super Mario Bros. and the World 1 map theme from Super Mario Bros. 3.
In Mario & Luigi: Superstar Saga + Bowser's Minions, the interior of the house has been changed, now including cameos from previous Super Mario titles.

In Dance Dance Revolution: Mario Mix, Mario and Luigi's house has, depending on which was selected, a huge Mario Cap or Luigi Cap for a roof. It also has a green mustache-like decoration with a star in the center and is very small. There also was a river just down the path that flooded.

Only Luigi's House appears in Super Mario Run, and in this game, it unlocks Luigi as a playable character when placed in the kingdom for the first time. In this game, the house looks like a Toad House with a giant Luigi Cap instead of a Toad's cap (though it is still shaped like one).

Mario's House appears in the LEGO Super Mario expansion sets Mario's House & Yoshi and Picnic at Mario's House. The house is yellow in color and it has a red roof and, in the latter set, green windows. A sign with Mario's name is present on top of the entrance.

At the very end of The Super Mario Bros. Movie, the Mario Bros.' House appears as part of Toad Town where Mario and Luigi take up residence after defeating Bowser. Near the house is a direct Warp Pipe to Brooklyn. Much like in their apartment in Brooklyn and in the RPG games, Mario and Luigi share a bedroom and have their own beds.