Mario Party 10 is a game for the Wii U. It is the tenth home console installment in the Mario Party series, the twentieth installment overall, and the only installment for the Wii U, and features many reused gameplay elements from its predecessor. The game features a standard Party Mode (similar in gameplay to the Party Mode from Mario Party 9), and a new mode called Bowser Party, in which one player controls Bowser using the GamePad, and exclusive minigames can be played. Mini Stars return in normal party, as well as vehicles in all modes. The game is also compatible with amiibo.

Mario Party 10 offers three basic modes of play: Mario Party, Bowser Party, and amiibo Party each with their own unique styles of play. Other modes include Minigames and Toad's Room - the former has players simply playing minigames while the latter is where players can access a shop, a photo booth, and other items.

Mario Party is the central mode of Mario Party 10. Similar to Mario Party 9, players compete to get the most Mini Stars while traveling through the board on one vehicle, though this time, everyone starts with five Mini Stars. Characters move around in vehicles taking turns being the captain and rolling the dice. A brand new feature is that Bowser is locked in the GamePad with dice numbers. Each time a Dice Block is rolled, the lock of the corresponding number will be unlocked (there are six locks, one for each number on the die). Bowser will sometimes pound on his cell multiple times and look around in the GamePad. The player who unlocks the last lock loses half of their Mini Stars and Bowser will add Bowser Spaces on the board. If Bowser isn't free by the time the "Homestretch!" space is reached, he will be sealed away and his son will add Bowser Jr. Spaces instead. When in Chaos Castle, a yellow Toad takes Bowser's place and gives the player 20 Mini Stars for freeing him. Also, item shops return, this time in the form of Toad Houses, where a Special Dice Block is given to all players.

Bowser Party is a new mode of gameplay featuring Bowser. One player controls Bowser using the GamePad, and up to four others use Wii Remotes to play against him as Team Mario. Mini Stars are replaced by Hearts, and the goal of Bowser is to deplete all of the other players' six hearts, while the goal of the other players is to make it to the Super Star at the end of the course with at least one heart between them. Each member of Team Mario rolls one Dice Block, while Bowser rolls four Bowser Dice Blocks by default, though certain events can cause him to have more or less available. If he does not roll a high enough number to catch Team Mario, he is given the option to reroll, though the option is only given once. If Bowser catches up to Team Mario or if Team Mario is sent backwards to him, he forces them to play a randomly selected "Bowser Battle" minigame, where hearts are lost if the players are hit by his attacks. This can also happen if Team Mario cannot move away from Bowser because some players towards the end of the turn order are already eliminated, in which case Bowser will immediately initiate the Bowser Battle minigame selection as his turn begins. If Bowser depletes all of some players' hearts but other players are still standing, the eliminated players can receive Special Dice Blocks for the remaining teammates to use. If Bowser depletes all of the hearts from all four players, he wins. If Bowser fails to deplete a heart from any Team Mario player, all of the team members perform their victory animations while Bowser roars in anger. Normally, the minigames are fairly easy for Team Mario, but Bowser can also become Angry and can play harder minigames if at least one member of Team Mario survives a minigame with all of their hearts intact (or if he does not roll a high enough number again to catch Team Mario after a reroll), and can also become Furious and can select which minigame to play if "Big Bad Bowser Mode" is selected as a Homestretch! event.
At the Homestretches of Mushroom Park and Whimsical Waters, Bowser Jr. appears with a roulette for Bowser to help him. In Chaos Castle's Homestretch, Bowser instead fuses the Bowser Dice Blocks into the Super Bowser Dice Block. He will then take his turn after each member of Team Mario; if he rolls his own icon, Bowser will immediately catch up to Team Mario. If Team Mario makes it to the goal, they face a challenge against Bowser Jr., in which he summons a normal enemy and a boss, and has Bowser hide the Super Star with him or one of the enemies. The player who reached the goal then guesses who has the star. If they guess correctly, they win, but an incorrect guess results in them being knocked back several spaces. If Team Mario makes it to the goal after being knocked back twice, they automatically win.
Regardless of whether Bowser or Team Mario won, the camera subsequently focuses on the losing player(s). If Team Mario lost, the game displays the number of spaces Team Mario would have had to travel to reach the Super Star. If Bowser lost, the camera simply shows where Bowser stopped and him stomping his foot in anger.

In amiibo Party, players can scan a playable character's amiibo and play on small boards designed for that character with up to three other amiibo figurines. Players compete in a 10-turn game for the most stars, which can be bought by coins, similar to the gameplay in previous Mario Party games prior to Mario Party 9. CPUs or human players without amiibo are represented by cardboard cutouts instead of amiibo. Players who have amiibo can save and use tokens, which can affect gameplay. Players can also use character tokens to swap out a part of the board to the corresponding character board. Also, if the player has Mario Party: Star Rush, they can scan their amiibo that has Mario Party 10 data and receive a Dice Block that matches the token in Toad Scramble.  Players can earn and use certain items by landing on specific locations on the board, which allows them to play a short game that can grant them items.

Coin Challenge is a bonus game mode for 2-4 players. Rather than being found in the "Bonus Games" section, it is instead found in the Mario Party mode, at the very end of the game selection screen. Player compete to earn coins based off their minigame results in three, five, or seven rounds of competition. The game starts with the characters competing in a minigame to earn coins based on their position: 1st place earns 15 coins, 2nd place earns 10 coins, 3rd place earns 5 coins, and 4th place earns 0 coins. Each round, a minigame is picked from the minigame wheel that contains six random minigames. The minigame is picked randomly for the first round and by the last place player for subsequent rounds. If the difference between first and last is 30 coins or more at the start of a round, the minigame wheel spins slower, making selecting a specific minigame easier. One minigame equals one round, and at the end of each round, players will be able to see how many coins they earned in that minigame and how much they possess after each round, with the exception of the final round, where all there is in each coin counter are three question marks. When playing a five- or seven- round game, the last two rounds have two Chance Minigames; if one of them is selected, the players earn double the amount of coins normally earned in that round. Once three, five, or seven minigames have been completed, depending on how many rounds the player has decided to play for, the game ends. The maximum number of coins is 45 for three rounds, 105 for five, and 135 for seven.

The players enter their colored pipes and the camera rises in height to each pipe corresponding to the ranking. Rankings are revealed from last to first based off who had the most or least coins in the game. If there is a tie for a position, the position in which no one takes that spot is skipped, and the characters that tie will exit the pipe next to each other, doing their respective poses simultaneously based on if they placed first or not. The number of coins that will come out of a pipe is based on the number of coins the player in that place had, and after the last coin comes out, the character will jump out of the pipe and do a victory animation (if placed 1st) or a failure animation (if placed outside 1st). Once the camera reaches the gold pipe and the character jumps out, the words "Congratulations!" appear on the screen; the music used for the result screen is shared with Minigame Tournament.
The Ranking screen in this mode is displayed the same way as the Mario Party mode in a board and in amiibo Party mode, except that they lack Coin, Star or Mini Star symbols altogether and that the player labels that say P1, P2, etc. are merged closer to the character icon. The "View Details" button replaces the "View Graph" button from the other modes, and pressing that button changes the screen to another page that displays how many coins each player won in a specific round; if the respective minigame was a Chance Minigame, the values shown here will be twice as normal for that round.
No matter how many rounds are set, 20 Mario Party Points are always awarded at the end of each Coin Challenge game.

Players can also tap an amiibo to get bases and bonus Mario Party Points with a scratch card. However, only amiibo with Mario Party 10 data can earn bases, while others can only earn Mario Party Points. Once all of the bases are collected for an amiibo, the amiibo also gets scratch cards for the amiibo Bonus.

Minigame Tournament is a bonus game mode for up to eight players, the only mode in the game to allow that many players. Despite the fact that Super Smash Bros. for Wii U allows seven Wii Remotes to be connected to the Wii U at once, pass and play is enforced when playing with five or more human players. The game starts with eight players divided into two groups of four. The first group consists of odd player numbers, and the second group consists of even player numbers. This is decided based on the order the characters are picked. The players in each respective group face off in a minigame, with first and second advancing to the next round and third and fourth being eliminated. If a minigame is only between CPU contestants, the minigame will be skipped and results will be simulated. Ties are decided by dice rolls unless the tie is between two players in 3rd place. Before a minigame begins, each player must grab the  for their character and press the  button to confirm. When playing with five or more human players, after the first group plays, the players who played that minigame must hand over the  to the other players.
After both groups have finished their minigames, the game moves on to the second round, and another minigame is played. Like with the first round, the top two players advance to the final round and the bottom two are eliminated. In the final round, the top two competitors must play one last minigame; the victor player then wins the tournament.

Bowser Challenge is a bonus single-player game mode. The single player plays all ten Bowser minigames, attempting to make the four computer players lose as many hearts as possible. Computer players always have six hearts to start each minigame. For every computer player that is knocked out by losing all six hearts, the player receives three bonus hearts. The total number of hearts lost by the computer players in all ten minigames, plus the bonus hearts for knocking out computer players, is the player's score. Once the player completes all of the minigames, Bowser gets a new throne, with the design of the throne depending on how many hearts are in the total.

Toad's Room is an extra mode, featuring a shop, a photo booth and a challenges mode.

There are a total of thirteen playable characters in Mario Party 10. Of these characters, two, Rosalina and Spike, are playable for the first time in the series, with Spike also being playable for the first time in any game. Bowser is not playable in Mario Party mode, but is playable in other modes, and, despite previously being playable in Mario Party 4's Beach Volley Folly minigame, he is considered to be a new playable character to the series. Toadette and Spike are unlockable through the Shop in Toad's Room. Also, Donkey Kong makes his first full playable appearance in the series since Mario Party 4, and Toadette is playable for the first time in the series since Mario Party 8.

These characters are various minor NPCs that appear in boards and minigames.

Note: There are three different exclusive vehicles in each board, one available from the start and the other two purchasable from Toad's Room for 300 Mario Party Points each. They all have the same purpose of carrying the characters around a board, but their type depends on the board's theme (for example, submarines are used in Whimsical Waters while aircraft-like vehicles are used in Airship Central).

Mario Party 10 features a grand total of 75 minigames, which is only slightly less than the 81 each in both Mario Party 9 and Mario Party: Island Tour. The minigame categories are much the same as in previous Mario Party installments: free-for-all minigames pit all four players against each other, 1 vs. 3 pits one player against the remaining three, and 2 vs. 2 pits two groups against one another. Boss minigames from Mario Party 9 also return with no changes to the basic formula; players compete against each other to defeat a boss. Yet also returning from Mario Party 9 are Bowser Jr. minigames, in which one player attempts to best Bowser Jr. in a wager for coins; however, only two of these minigames appear, and they are only fully playable in amiibo Party mode. A new category of minigames known as "Bowser Battles" are exclusive to Bowser Party mode, and involve Bowser attacking up to four other players in an attempt to deplete as many hearts as possible. Lastly, extra minigames are minigames which do not fit into any of the general categories and thus have their own sections in the Bonus Games; Badminton Bash and Jewel Drop are the only two extra minigames.

1 - The player(s) must free Bowser by rolling all numbers on the Dice Block for this space to occupy existing spaces on the board.
2 - Only the +1 Bowser Dice Block Space appears on Mushroom Park; the -1 Space is absent.

In amiibo Party, Tokens can be used. The player can save them to their amiibo to use at the start of another party. Tokens spawn on the board after a star is collected, and disappear after a few turns. The player can only hold one, they can be used once each turn, and each one will have a different effect. There is a total of 34 Tokens:

Mario Party 10 received largely mixed reviews. Most criticism was directed towards the Mario Party mode as being too luck-based and the amiibo Party mode as being too bare-bones, though praise was directed towards the minigame varieties and the Bowser Party mode. It currently holds a score of 64.49% on GameRankings based on 47 reviews, and a score of 66 on Metacritic based on 66 reviews.
Samuel Claiborn of IGN gave the game a 6.5/10, criticizing the return of the concepts from Mario Party 9, the board layouts in amiibo Party mode, and the game playing its target audience too safe, but was otherwise praising of the minigames and the Bowser Party mode, the latter of which he called "a blast", claiming "Whether you are Bowser or not, this five-person modification of Mario Party is [Mario Party] 10's greatest achievement – and one of the best uses of the Wii U GamePad yet." In a similar review, Mark Walton of GameSpot gave the game a 6/10, praising the visuals and the minigames, but criticized the amiibo Party boards, the overreliance on luck, and a poor implementation of the GamePad, stating "Ah, Mario Party, the game that, on paper at least, should be a rollicking good time filled with joyful minigames and all your favourite Nintendo characters. It's hard not be suckered in by that classic Nintendo charm, the bright colours, the jangly music, Mario yelling "it's-a-me!" If games were fun based on nostalgia value alone, then Mario Party 10 would be a wonderful creation. But they're not, and once you're over the sight of Mario and friends riding along in a Boo-inspired ghost train, the game's mildly amusing take on a family board game wears thin." Kirk McKeand of the Digital Spy was even more critical and gave it two out of five stars, praising only the concept of the Bowser Party mode and being critical of practically everything else, including the Mario Party and amiibo Party modes and some minigames he deemed "want[ing] to see what your wrist action is like".

Mario Party 10 is the tenth best-selling game for the Wii U with 2.26 million copies sold worldwide as of September 30, 2021.

During the Nintendo Treehouse Event at E3 2014, it was claimed that Nabbit would appear to give Bowser extra dice blocks during Bowser Party. However, in the final game, only Bowser Jr. gives Bowser extra dice, and Nabbit appears to take Dice Blocks away from Bowser. Also in the E3 demo of Mario Party 10, the characters used Mario Party 9 winning and losing animations, as well as their voice clips and the announcer. The final version of the game does not feature an announcer, making it the only mainline Mario Party game with this distinction.
The fireballs in Bowser's Bad Breath had a different appearance. Additionally, the controls for Bowser in Bowser's High Dive were originally made to have the GamePad tilt left and right, though the final game instead uses the touch screen. Additionally, in an early gameplay of Bowser Party, the meter that showed the amount of spaces Bowser was from catching up with the Mario Team, and the bar that showed Team Mario's health both had a different appearance.

The Mario Party 10 Virtual Launch Party was an online event organized by Nintendo of America on March 18, 2015, two days before the game's launch date in North America. The event comprised activities posted via the company's accounts on Facebook, Instagram, and Twitter between 13:00 and 17:00 PDT. Users of these social networks were encouraged to participate in these activities.
The activities were as follows:

Exclusively on Twitter, users who engaged with these posts using the hashtags "#MP10LaunchParty" and "#SweepsEntry" became eligible for a sweepstake involving five prize packs, each consisting of a Wii U system and a Mario Party 10 + amiibo bundle. A number of participating Twitter users were also selected at the end of every hour in this event to receive a prize involving a Gold Mario amiibo.

Mario Party 10 was developed by NDcube, the same development team who worked on Mario Party 9 and Mario Party: Island Tour. In addition, several staff members who previously developed Mario Party: Island Tour returned to develop Mario Party 10, including director Yukio Umematsu and composer Rei Kondoh.
While Rosalina's former voice actress, Kerri Kane, was listed in the voice credits (misspelled as Kerry Kane), this was a mistake, as Laura Faye Smith provided the clips used in Mario Party 10.