Mario Kart Stadium is the introductory track of Mario Kart 8 and Mario Kart 8 Deluxe and is the first race of the Mushroom Cup. It is  a basic circuit taking place in an autodrome stadium full of advertisements and banners of the players with fireworks in the background, with spectator capacity around 20,000 based on the number of sprites. The course also has a big city in the background. This is the first course to be named after the Mario Kart series itself. This course also makes Mario Kart 8 the first game in the series (excluding the arcade games) where the first course in the game is not a circuit, despite the overall design still being a circuit-type track.
Part of this course's music is reused for the theme of Mario Circuit, albeit in a different arrangement, making Mario Kart 8 and Mario Kart 8 Deluxe the only games in the series where the first course does not share music with another course. This course's music reappears in Mario Kart Live: Home Circuit as the music for Live Circuit.

The course begins with a short pit straight followed by a right turn. The racers then turn right with three colored paths that stay together: an inner blue path (with an apex), a yellow path in the center that says "Mushroom Cup" on it, and an outer red path with Dash Panels and coins. The track then approaches the anti-gravity part followed by a left turn. Next, the racers then go up and down a raised hairpin turn, followed by a gliding area before ending with one more left turn to the finish line, which also has an outer red path with three Dash Panels and a ramp at the end.
It is the only course in the Mushroom Cup to not have an underwater section.
At the start of the course, various pit areas can be seen, with each one of them containing a screen of the course's map on it. Other courses containing their own map are Water Park, Rainbow Road, GCN Yoshi Circuit, and, in Mario Kart 8 Deluxe, Merry Mountain.

"The idea for this track was to make it sound like the type of music in the opening ceremony. It's worth paying special attention to the bassline. As I'm sure you'll notice, we based this track on the Mario Circuit music in the Flower Cup."