Mario Tennis is a tennis game initially released for Game Boy Color. It is the second direct Mario Tennis game in the series, and the first handheld game in the series. The game features an RPG-like story mode, in which the player controls either Alex or Nina in a quest to become the top tennis player and beat the best player of all, Mario. The game has seen later releases on Nintendo 3DS as a Virtual Console title and Nintendo Switch through Game Boy - Nintendo Switch Online.

Mario Tennis has several different modes. The modes are Mario Tour, Exhibition, Linked Play, and Mario Minigames.

In Mario Tour, the player takes control of Alex or Nina. They are the new students trying to make their way up the ranks at the Royal Academy, a school for tennis. At the beginning of the game, the player gets to choose whether they are going to play singles or doubles matches, and can change between either whenever they want. Alex's doubles partner is Harry, and Nina's is Kate.
In Mario Tour, the player's character does exercises with coaches and plays against higher ranked players in order to get a higher rank for him or herself. Higher ranks mean they can challenge better players. As a new student, the player starts in the Junior Class. The goal is to advance to the Senior Class, and then to the Varsity Squad. Eventually, they can earn a spot on the academy's travelling team and enter the Island Open. After the Island Open the player can face Mario in singles on the Castle Court; in doubles, both Mario and Peach.
As the player progresses through the ranks and gains experience, the player gets to increase their characters ability in different areas (similar to an RPG). The four areas that can be improved are Speed, Power, Spin, and Control. Leveling each ability increases a series of related stats, while neglected abilities can have their stats decay.

In this mode, the player plays a single game of tennis. The player may choose what character both they and the computer uses as well as the court and computer's difficulty level. Both singles and doubles are available in Exhibition.

Linked Play is just like Exhibition Mode, except that the player plays against another human player instead of a computer. Linked Play requires two Game Boy Colors, two copies of Mario Tennis for the GBC, and a link cable. This mode was removed from the 3DS Virtual Console release due to multiplayer support being removed.

This is a group of minigames presented by various Nintendo characters. Minigames are unlocked when their respective characters are unlocked, meaning that four of them need a Nintendo 64 Transfer Pak to be unlocked and as a result cannot be unlocked on 3DS Virtual Console and Nintendo Switch Online. The minigames include:

With a copy of Mario Tennis for the Nintendo 64, a Nintendo 64, a Transfer Pak, and a copy of Mario Tennis for the GBC, it is possible to transfer information between the two versions of the game. Characters from the Game Boy Color game can be transferred to the Nintendo 64 game and vice-versa. This is not possible in the Nintendo 3DS or Nintendo Switch Online versions of the game, but the Nintendo Switch Online version makes all content that would been unlocked via transfer already unlocked.

All characters have different statistics, making each of them unique. Luigi, Donkey Kong, and Baby Mario, as well as new characters Allie, Joy, and Brian are available from the start, but most characters need to be unlocked by beating them in the Mario Tour. Some characters need to be unlocked by a N64 Transfer Pak. In total, there are 29 playable characters available in the game, with all new characters to the Mario Tennis series also making their first appearances in any game. Below is a full list of all of the characters in the game. Notably, Mario can only be played as after completing the Mario Tour, making this the first of the few games in the Super Mario franchise where he is unlockable. Also, this is the only appearance of Waluigi in a Game Boy Color game.
Characters and courts in this game, along with Mario Tennis on the Nintendo 64, can no longer be transferred while playing the Virtual Console release, as the Nintendo 3DS is not compatible with the Nintendo 64/Game Boy Color Transfer Pak. The Nintendo Switch Online version features the transfer-only characters unlocked by default, which therefore allows the Warehouse Court to be unlocked.

These characters must be created before they are usable.