The Master Cycle is a sport bike in Mario Kart 8 and Mario Kart 8 Deluxe. It is the signature bike of Skyward Sword-style Link. It is an inside drifting bike shaped after a horse, based on and named after the Master Sword. The sides of the bike feature the Hylian Shield. A spinning Triforce can be seen behind the shields. As stated on Nintendo of America's Twitter account, the Master Cycle has "plenty of horse power", a reference to Link traveling by horse in his games. The artwork design for Link riding the Master Cycle in Mario Kart 8 is drawn in the same style as artwork from The Legend of Zelda: Skyward Sword, rather than 3D renders like the rest of the Mario Kart 8 characters.

The Master Cycle is included in The Legend of Zelda × Mario Kart 8 downloadable content pack of Mario Kart 8. Its biggest strengths are its speed and handling, while its known weakness is its traction. It is the fastest bike in the game and is tied with The Duke for having the highest weight and lowest acceleration of all bikes. The bike is unique in that no other vehicle part in the game shares its stats. A CPU-controlled Link will occasionally use this vehicle body, paired with the Triforce Tires, and Hylian Kite. The Master Cycle shares its engine sound with the Bone Rattler which is a straight-twin engine.
In Mario Kart 8 Deluxe, the Master Cycle is part of the base game and is randomly unlocked by collecting coins. A CPU The Legend of Zelda: Skyward Sword-style Link can use this bike body. However, its stats are different, with its only advantage being a small ground speed boost, while its water speed, acceleration, anti-gravity handling, traction, and mini-turbo are hindered. The Master Cycle shares its stats with both the Sneeker and Gold Standard. This version also includes the Master Cycle Zero, a counterpart to the Master Cycle used by Champion's Tunic Link.

The Master Cycle appears as a Legend-class Grab-type primary spirit with two support slots in Super Smash Bros. Ultimate. When used, this spirit increases a fighter's speed in battle. The Master Cycle spirit can be obtained only by summoning it with City Tripper, Mach Rider, and Excitebike spirits and an Attack-type core.