Mechakoopas (also formatted as Mecha Koopas, Mecha-Koopas, or Meca Koopas) are one of Bowser's many minions that debuted in Super Mario World. They are small mechanical versions of Bowser, resembling windup toys. Each of them has a windup key on its back, and their appearances feature several mechanical appendages. They walk in a rhythmical way and must wind themselves up again from time to time in order to keep moving. In most appearances, they have large lazy-eyed, slack-jawed faces resembling Bowser's original sprites from Super Mario Bros. and Lemmy Koopa.

Mechakoopas make a short appearance in Super Mario World, where they are only seen in the last level. In this game, they get paralyzed for a short time when stepped on, so Mario can kick them around, pick them up and throw them. When they get thrown, however, they do not travel very far like regular Koopa shells do. Mechakoopas are also not affected by ordinary kicks, as they just freeze, giving the player a chance to throw them somewhere; however, they are vulnerable against the Spin Jump, which turns them into dust.
Mechakoopas are also prevalent in Super Mario World's final battle, in which Bowser throws them off of his Koopa Clown Car. Mario or Luigi must throw them at Bowser six times in order to defeat him.

Mechakoopas return in Super Mario Galaxy as Mecha-Bowsers. Their design is drastically different and somewhat bigger, appearing more bulky and frog-like in build. They cannot be picked up by Mario or Luigi. Mecha-Bowsers are found in both the Toy Time Galaxy and the Dreadnought Galaxy and can breathe flames for fairly long amounts of time. They can even chase Mario, like Goombas do. They can be defeated with a Ground Pound and stunned with a Star Spin. When defeated, they release a coin. They always tend to breathe fire right after recovering from being stunned.

Mechakoopas (referred to as Windup Koopas in the Prima guide) reappear in New Super Mario Bros. Wii, where they are only encountered on Airship levels. In this game, Mechakoopas are designed after their appearance in the Mario Party series, and retain their attack pattern from Super Mario World. Unlike in Super Mario World, they do not have teeth, and their wind-up key is black instead of being white with a turquoise base. Though they normally do not interact, modifying the game to put Yoshi in the same environment as Mechakoopas reveals that he can swallow one but not jump on one.

The Mecha-Bowsers from Super Mario Galaxy reappear with the same attributes, but they are referred to as Micro Mecha-Bowsers (or Micro Mecha Bowsers). They appear in the Flipsville Galaxy during the mission Flipsville's New Digs in the first section of the galaxy, and in the Cosmic Cove Galaxy during the mission Exploring the Cosmic Cavern on the last planet. In addition to the Ground Pound, Mario can also use the Spin Drill to defeat them by jumping over them and then drilling into them. Despite the name Micro Mecha-Bowser, they are not any smaller than they were previously. The name is intended to be in relation to the giant Mecha-Bowser, which does not appear in this game.

Mechakoopas return in New Super Mario Bros. U with the same design and attacks as in New Super Mario Bros. Wii. Only three of them appear on The Mighty Cannonship in Soda Jungle.

Mechakoopas were added to Super Mario Maker 2 in the version 3.0.0 update released on April 22, 2020. In addition to regular Mechakoopas, that behave as in previous installments, red and blue variants appear as alternate forms. The red versions, named Blasta Mechakoopas, spit homing missiles that explode after a little while. The blue variants, called Zappa Mechakoopas, periodically fire laser beams capable of destroying Brick Blocks. In the nighttime ground theme, all Mechakoopas are equipped with jet engines, allowing them to hover. If given wings, they fly back and forth horizontally. They do not appear in the Super Mario 3D World game style. If the player Spin Jumps on it when it is sleeping in low gravity, it will start moving either diagonally forwards or diagonally backwards at a steady pace. Since they did not appear in Super Mario Bros. and Super Mario Bros. 3, new sprites have been made for those styles, while the Super Mario World style corrects the single teal pixel on their windup key's base. In addition, the Mega Mechakoopa makes a reappearance by enlarging a normal Mechakoopa with a Super Mushroom.

Mechakoopas return in Super Mario Bros. Wonder, where they behave the same as in past installments. They primarily appear in Petal Isles Flying Battleship, while new variants called Flying Mechakoopas appear in Deep Magma Bog Flying Battleship and High-Voltage Gauntlet.

Mechakoopas, referred to as Mechkoopas and sometimes generically called "robots," appear in several episodes throughout the Super Mario World animated series. Unlike their game counterparts, the animated Mechkoopas have light-green arms with white claws on their fingers.
Mechkoopas' first appearance is in the episode "Send in the Clown," where a Mechkoopa riding a bicycle acts as the tightrope walker in King Koopa's circus, the "Koopaling Bros. Circus." After the circus is revealed to be a trap, this Mechkoopa, along with several Koopa football players, chases Mario through Neon Castle. The Mechkoopa is eventually defeated by Mario, who gains the cape ability. Later in the episode, Koopa attempts to defeat Mario by throwing several Mechkoopas at him from the Koopa Clown Car. Mario, after knocking a Mechkoopa unconscious, defeats Koopa by hurling the Mechkoopa at the car, causing it to malfunction and crash in a very similar way as Super Mario World.
Mechkoopas next make a small appearance in "The Night Before Cave Christmas," where several of them attempt to attack Mario and Yoshi, who had broken into Neon Castle. Mario and Yoshi escape these Mechkoopas when Mario grabs a Feather to transform into Cape Mario and flies away.
The last appearance of Mechkoopas in the Super Mario World TV series is in the show's final episode, "Mama Luigi." During Luigi's story, Koopa sends a brigade of Mechkoopas after Mario and Luigi as the two explore Koopa's throne room while looking for Yoshi. After the Mechkoopas chase them for a while, they are eaten by Yoshi.

In Flown the Koopa, if Mario and Luigi run into Bowser in the Valley of the Koopas, he will sic four Mechakoopas he had hidden in the trash can he was using as a chair on the two. In one possible scenario, Luigi will smash one of the Mechakoopas with his wrench, and make the others destroy themselves (by pressing the sports channel button) after taking their remote from Bowser. In the second scenario, the Mechakoopas will knock the Mario Bros. out with their telescoping robotic arms, then turn on Bowser, knocking him out as well. The Mechakoopas then wander off, intent on enacting their own world domination schemes.
In Unjust Desserts, it is mentioned by Luigi that some Mechakoopas were among the creatures Magikoopa shrank and tricked Yoshi into eating, though none are encountered in the actual story.

During a fight with Mario and Yoshi, Bowser uses Mechakoopas as projectiles in volume 4 of Super Mario-kun, similar to his attack in the original game. Yoshi stuffs them in his mouth and spits them back, hitting Bowser.

Mechakoopas appeared in Bowser's Castle in Yoshi's Safari. In this game, they could be stunned with the Super Scope's bullets, but would awaken momentarily unless Yoshi walked into them.

In the Super Mario Adventures comic, the Koopalings, after having captured Mario by chance, used two Mechakoopas to send a message to Luigi, Toad and Yoshi. Either they exchange Princess Toadstool for Mario, or Mario will be killed, after saying this, the Mechakoopas symbolically burnt a Mario doll with the flamethrowers in their mouths. Luigi then said, "That's blackmail!". Luigi, with help from Friendly Floyd, managed to trick the two Mechakoopas by making them take him to the Koopalings instead of Princess Toadstool.

In Hotel Mario, Mechakoopas (parsed Mecha Koopas) reside in Wendy's Blitz Snarlton Hotel and Bowser's Seizures Palace Hotel. They are blue and trundle around in an odd manner. When stomped, they somewhat shrivel up and temporarily cease movement. When roughly 3/4 of the stage's time runs out, they simultaneously break down and become immobile piles of junk. This can be an obstacle if one is in front of a door, requiring at least six jumps to be pushed aside. They can be defeated with a fireball.

In Super Mario RPG: Legend of the Seven Stars, Bowser uses a giant Mechakoopa, parsed Mecha Koopa in original releases,) as a weapon in his attack, Mechakoopa Stomp. This Mechakoopa was developed in a top-secret laboratory deep in Bowser's Keep for several months.

Mechakoopas, also known as Koopas or Wind-Ups, are obstacles in the course Bowser Castle 4 of the Special Cup in Mario Kart: Super Circuit. A group of three appear on one of the straightaways, walking across the course and back. If a racer hits one, they will spin out. Mechakoopas are absent from the Mario Kart Tour rendition of Bowser's Castle 4.

Mechakoopas appear as obstacles in GBA Ribbon Road in the Bell Cup of Mario Kart 8 and Mario Kart 8 Deluxe. In this game, they are much larger than most iterations of them, mostly due to the stage taking place in a miniaturized toy castle in a bedroom. Mechakoopas walk around in circles and serve as road hazards, and hitting one causes the player's vehicle to spin out.

In Mario Party 5, the player will fight a group of Mechakoopas in the first part of the final battle minigame, Frightmare. They would walk around, occasionally flashing red, then unleashing fiery breath. Jumping on them once will cause them to explode. The player must throw them at each other, or just avoid them all for 60 seconds. Jumping on a Mechakoopa while it's breathing fire will hurt the player. This game marks the debut of Mechakoopa's current design.

In Mario Party Advance, a mathematically gifted Mechakoopa appears in Shroom City. According to his description, he works at the Mushroom Library and often gets lost in thought. He is found at the library, engrossed in a book. When approached, he introduces himself as a mathematician, and boasts that he discovered Mechakoopa's Theorem. He then sets up a quiz of sorts: if the player correctly answers his three questions (all of which relate to math), they receive a Gaddget. If all three of the questions are answered correctly, he ecstatically praises the character as a genius before giving them the Castle Night Gaddget. He states that this Gaddget, among many others, recently fell out of the sky, and he hopes that the player can help clean up this mess. The ending credits state that he spends all of his time trying to write a new mathematical theorem.

In Mario Party 7, Mechakoopas appear in the minigame Tunnel of Lava!. Here, one Mechakoopa will eat the key required to win the minigame and will retreat into a hole, only to come back a second later with many other Mechakoopas. The Mechakoopas will then orbit a focal point at the player's starting position, and the player must stomp on the correct Mechakoopa within 30 seconds. The Mechakoopas have an attack pattern similar to that in the Frightmare minigame from Mario Party 5, except all the Mechakoopas will breathe fire simultaneously.

In Mario Party 9, Mechakoopas are given a minor appearance. They only appear in the minigame Mecha Choice, in which they chase the player through the hallways. They also surround the player if they choose the incorrect door. During the first Captain Event on Bowser Station, Heart Star Colony, if there are less than 4 players, Mechakoopas will fill the open spaces, ensuring that there will always be three players for the captain to match.

While regular Mega Mechakoopas do not appear in Mario Party 10, Mega Mechakoopa appears as a boss.

In Super Mario Party, while no actual Mechakoopas appear, a Mechakoopa makes a cameo appearance as artwork in the minigame Absent Minded, where it is one of the characters that can be chosen as a guess.

Smaller versions of Mechakoopas make a short appearance in Mario & Luigi: Superstar Saga as conductors to complete circuits of electricity in Bowser's Castle; unnamed toy mice held the same purpose previously in Woohoo Hooniversity.

Mechakoopas make their second appearance in the Mario & Luigi series in Mario & Luigi: Dream Team. They appear in Dreamy Neo Bowser Castle as common enemies rather than obstacles and retain the same appearance as in other recent games. In the field, Mechakoopas run back and forth rapidly, making them difficult to avoid. They gradually slow-down to a halt as their key unwinds, and will spend a moment rewinding it, before continuing running about again. In battle they appear in fairly large groups, working together to attack Mario in three ways. 
Their first attack method is lining up in several columns. Each column approaches one by one. If a Mechakoopa is aligned with Mario and is close enough, it will spit fireballs forward. Mario can move up and down or jump to avoid the fireballs, then jump to get over or land onto a Mechakoopa. Mechakoopas will stop shooting fireballs once they get closer, accelerating a little before the collision. A Mechakoopa that hits enough times with its fireballs will leave the formation instead of reaching Mario. The last column may not be full depending on the number of Mechakoopas, leaving a blind spot where the attack is easily avoided. These fireballs may inflict Char.
For the second attack the Machakoopas surround Mario, forming a small group for each of the four cardinal directions. The groups will hop in an order, denoting the order that each group has one Mechakoopa break off and charge at Mario. The player can counter this attack with the hammer. 
Their third attack is only performed by smaller groups of Mechakoopas. They line up and charge into Mario one-by-one, which is countered by jumping. If the Mechakoopa hops while approaching, it will jump over Mario. This can only be avoided by remaining idle.
If a Mechakoopa is damaged, either with a First Strike or during the battle, it will malfunction. This is denoted by electricity coursing around it. In this state, when the Mechakoopa spits fireballs during the first attack, fireballs that miss will loop back around and potentially damage the Mechakoopa. The tells for a malfunctioning Mechakoopa during the second and third attack are reversed. For the second attack a malfunctioning Mechakoopa will circle around and attack from the direction opposite of the group it came from. For the third attack, a malfunctioning Mechakoopa will jump over Mario by default and the hop tell indicates that it will not jump. Damaging a Mechakoopa again makes it go back to normal. 
Mechakoopas can give Mario the Trip status.
During the battle with Bowser Jr., Mechakoopas appear as objects that Mario and Luigi can throw at him while riding his Junior Clown Car.

Mechakoopas appear in Mario & Luigi: Paper Jam as enemies. They attack by standing in front of a bro and spitting a fireball at him which is countered with the hammer, if they look straight they will shoot straight, and if they look up the fireball will go in an angle, and if shooting at Paper Mario it will fire multiple smaller fireballs. They also do the same one-by-one charge attack as in Mario & Luigi: Dream Team, which works the same way. Like in Mario & Luigi: Dream Team, when they take damage, they will malfunction and reverse their attack pattern.

In Mario & Luigi: Superstar Saga + Bowser's Minions, Mechakoopas replace Mecha-Chomps as regular enemies in Woohoo Hooniversity, and the Mechakoopas found in Bowser's Castle have been replaced with the toy mice. In battle, Mechakoopas attack by simply charging into the bro it lines up with. However, if it is malfunctioning, it will instead charge into the bro it is not aligned with. Mechakoopas also appear in Minion Quest: The Search for Bowser as recruitable allies, and appear in the missions Double Trouble Koopaling Caper and Goomba's Worth. They are melee troopers, and they attack by running into opponents. Their special skill, Mega Tackle, allows them to charge into an enemy. Mechakoopas are strong against Chargin' Chucks, but are weak to Broozers.

In Mario & Luigi: Bowser's Inside Story + Bowser Jr.'s Journey, Mechakoopas appear in the Bowser Jr.'s Journey mode, where they are enemies and recruitable allies. They appear as Bowser Jr.'s first troops, and are melee troopers.

In the Mario Tennis series, Mechakoopas are line judges in the Bowser's Castle courts of Mario Power Tennis and Mario Tennis Open. In Mario Tennis Aces, Mechakoopas walk around in Inferno Island as obstacles, flashing red and exploding when they approach the player. The player can knock the Mechakoopas away with their tennis racket, allowing them to damage opponents.

Mechakoopas serve as Bowser Jr.'s down special move in Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS / Wii U and Super Smash Bros. Ultimate. They get released from the Junior Clown Car and walk across the arena, turning around at ledges. In the former games, if it makes contact with an opponent, it knocks them up into the air before exploding; in the latter, however, the Mechakoopa latches onto the opponent while knocking them upward. It will also explode if attacked or simply left on its own, as well as also being able to be picked up and thrown.
In Super Smash Bros. Ultimate, a Mechakoopa also appears as a support spirit, which reduces damage taken from lava floors when equipped.

In the Super Mario Mash-up in Minecraft, Hoglins are replaced by Micro Mecha-Bowsers from Super Mario Galaxy. Additionally, red variants replace Zoglins.

Mechakoopas appear in Dr. Mario World as assistants. In stage mode, their effect is to increase the obtained score for each yellow virus eliminated, where the base score increase is greater at higher levels. In versus mode, their effect is to instead increase the speed of the attack meter for both the user and their opponent, where the amount of points required to fill the attack meter is reduced by the percentage listed, rounded down to the nearest round number. The attack meters are reduced further when other assistants with the same effect are present, such as with Fly Guy or another Mechakoopa. 

Mechakoopas make their Paper Mario debut in Paper Mario: The Origami King, where origami variants of them act as enemies. One Mechakoopa can appear in random battles, and can flee if not defeated in one turn. Its only attack is breathing fire at Mario. If they are defeated, a 1,000 Coin bag will be rewarded upon returning to the overworld.

While no regular Mechakoopas appear in Mario + Rabbids Sparks of Hope, Mechakoopas with Rabbid-like features called Rabbid Mechakoopas are summoned as Bowser's technique. They can also can be upgraded into Fire Rabbid Mechakoopas via Bowser's Skill Tree. Additionally, Darkmess versions called Darkmess Rabbid Mechakoopas can be summoned by Darkmess Bowser.

A bike based on a Mechakoopa appears in concept art for Mario Kart Wii. It was called the「メカクッパ DX」(Mekakuppa DX), translated to "Mechakoopa DX", but the concept ultimately did not make it into the final product.

Card Number: 17 (Normal), F16 (Silver)