Mega Man is a robot created by Dr. Light and the titular protagonist of the Mega Man video game series. Originally created to be Light's lab assistant, Dr. Wily taking over most of Light's robots led Mega Man to be converted into a battle robot to fight Wily, and stop him from taking over the world as well as achieve everlasting peace.
In the Super Mario franchise, Mega Man has made appearances in the Club Nintendo comics and cameos as unlockable costumes that his amiibo can unlock. Additionally, he is a playable fighter in Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS / Wii U and Super Smash Bros. Ultimate.

Mega Man appeared as a recurring character in the American television series, Captain N: The Game Master. Unlike in his canonical appearances, Mega Man had a green design with a visor, as well as a deep, raspy voice.

Mega Man's first appearance alongside Mario is in the German Club Nintendo magazine comic "Super Mario: Die Bescherung". The comic shows him with several other characters at Mario and Luigi's Christmas party.
His first and only major appearance was in the 1993 comic "Super Mario: Die Verwandlung", where he serves as Dr. Light's assistant. Toward the beginning Mega Man is the one that lets Mario into Dr. Light's home and guides him to his lab, making fun of Mario wearing a plastic bag to cover his pixelated head. Later, when Dr. Light confuses Mario's pixels for pimples, Mega Man appears and recommends "Oil of Mega Man". Finally, when Wario breaks out of the lab, Mega Man is the one driving the car they are chasing him in.
Mega Man is also mentioned in the comic "Super Mario: Mario im Wunderland". When Mario and Toad meet Kirby, the latter explains that he wants to see the wizard so that he can wish to look like Mega Man.

Mega Man's is a playable character in Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS and Super Smash Bros. for Wii U. He is the third third-party character to be confirmed as a playable character in the series. Mega Man's appearance and aesthetics in this game are based on his appearance in the NES titles, possessing a moveset centered around shooting at his opponents; he can use the Mega Buster to fire multiple single shots as his standard attack, which can be used while both walking and jumping, and use the Charge Shot as a side smash attack. His only direct attacks are the slide as his strong down attack, which made its debut in Mega Man 3, and the Mega Upper as his strong up, a move introduced in Mega Man 2: The Power Fighters which later appeared in Marvel vs. Capcom.
Much of Mega Man's moveset is based around the special weapons (referred to as the "Variable Weapon System") obtainable from the various Robot Masters in the classic Mega Man series. His special moves include Metal Blade, Crash Bomber, and Leaf Shield from Mega Man 2 as his standard special, side special, and down special respectively, and Rush Coil from Mega Man 3 as his up special. His dash attack is the Top Spin, a move from Mega Man 3 which can hit multiple times. His up smash is the Spark Shock and his down smash is the Flame Blast, from Mega Man 3 and Mega Man 6, respectively. His aerial attacks include Slash Claw from Mega Man 7 as his back air, Flame Sword from Mega Man 8 as his front air, Air Shooter from Mega Man 2 as his up air which sends a tornado into the air that pushes opponents up, and Hard Knuckle from Mega Man 3 as his down air which acts as a meteor smash. His grab is the Super Arm from the original Mega Man. His Final Smash is Mega Legends, which involves the other incarnations of the Mega Man character appearing alongside this one to blast opponents all at once.

Mega Man returns as an unlockable playable fighter in Super Smash Bros. Ultimate. His Final Smash now incorporates Proto Man and Bass, but otherwise functions the same as before. His Mega Buster can fire farther than the previous installment, improving some of his moves. Mega Man benefits from universal changes: his mobility is faster, his short hop timing is reduced, his aerials have less landing lag, he can directionally air dodge, and he can use any ground attack out of a run and any aerial attack on a ladder.
Mega Man's route in Classic Mode is titled Variable Weapons System: Online!. Unlike most other routes, the Bonus Game in Mega Man's Classic Mode route takes place between Rounds 5 and 6. He engages in these battles in the following order:

Ice Climbers on Summit
Samus on Coliseum
Donkey Kong on Kongo Jungle
Captain Falcon on Gamer
A Horde Battle against six Mega Mans at Wily Castle
Boss fight against Galleom
Final boss against Dr. Mario and Mewtwo on Wily Castle

By scanning the Mega Man amiibo on the GamePad or the right Joy-Con / Nintendo Switch Pro Controller's NFC reader while playing Mario Kart 8 and Mario Kart 8 Deluxe respectively, a special Mii racing suit designed after the character will be unlocked. A sample of this suit is shown right next to a picture of Mega Man on the Mii Racing Suits screen, which is located in the main menu of the game; thus, Mega Man makes his first cameo appearance within a Super Mario game. In Mario Kart 8, this costume is only available as of version 4.0.

Players can unlock a Mega Man amiibo design for Yoshi in Yoshi's Woolly World and Poochy & Yoshi's Woolly World by scanning Mega Man's amiibo.

Mega Man's amiibo can be used to unlock a Mega Man costume for use as Costume Mario in Super Mario Maker. His sprite is similar to his 8-bit sprite from the Mega Man series, but scaled down to fit the size of Small Mario. As with all other Costume Mario costumes, it can only be used in the Super Mario Bros. graphical style.
Mega Man's transformation sound is the level select sound from Mega Man 2, and while he has no jumping sound effect, his landing and death sounds are the ones throughout the Mega Man series, and pressing up on the d-pad causes him to hold out the Mega Buster, which also plays the sound for firing a shot in the Mega Man series. Finally, his level clear song is from Mega Man 2. His running and jumping animations are based on those used in the Mega Man series, and his stopping sprite is based on his sliding sprite first seen in Mega Man 3.