Mega Goombas, originally known as Grand Goombas, and alternatively  Giant Goombas or Big Goombas, are up-sized Goombas that have appeared as recurring enemies throughout the Super Mario franchise. They are larger than Hefty Goombas, and much larger than common Goombas.

Grand Goombas make their first appearance in Super Mario Bros. 3, where they are only encountered in Giant Land, alongside Giant Koopas and Piranhacus Giganticuses. Despite their massive size, they do not pose much of a threat, as they share all of the same weaknesses as regular Goombas. In the 16-bit remakes of the game, their sprites are slightly redrawn.

Grand Goombas appear again in Super Mario 64 and its Nintendo DS version on Tiny-Huge Island. If the player enters or warps to the huge side, Goombettes are replaced with Grand Goombas. These Goombas take longer to notice Mario, Yoshi, Luigi, or Wario, as they will charge at him only if he is very close to them. If a Grand Goomba hits the player character, he will instead lose two wedges of health instead of one wedge. These Goombas can be defeated only if jumped on, because punches and kicks do not affect them at all. Ground-pounding on them will produce a Blue Coin. Simply jumping on them also defeats them but produces only a single Yellow Coin.

Although no Grand Goombas appear as regular enemies, Mega Goomba serves as a boss in World 4-Castle.

In Super Mario Galaxy, only one Grand Goomba appears in the entire game. It appears in the Gateway Galaxy on the second metal planet along with normal Goombas, and must be defeated to get a key in order to both free a trapped Luma and head inside the planet to retrieve a Grand Star. The Grand Goomba is slower than the regular ones, and it makes a loud pounding noise when chasing Mario. Spinning it or hitting the nearby metronome puts it on its head, and a kick while it is stunned takes it out. Attempting to jump on it either through Somersaulting or Wall Jumping off of one of the metronomes will simply hurt Mario, regardless of his location relative to it.

Giant Goombas reappear in New Super Mario Bros. Wii. Giant Goombas only appear in the World 1 Enemy Course, where two of them appear trying to stop the player from saving the kidnapped Toad. Giant Goombas share the same attack pattern as many of their smaller relatives. One also appears after the player completes World 1-3 in single-player mode, taking a Toad to World 1-1. When jumped on, they split into two Hefty Goombas. If Ground Pounded, it splits into four normal Goombas. It takes four fireballs to defeat a Giant Goomba. Giant Goombas cannot be frozen by ice balls from Ice Mario; they will break out instantly after being frozen.

In Super Mario Galaxy 2, Giant Goombas return as enemies. They only appear in the Supermassive Galaxy. Like in the predecessor, Mario can attack them by spinning them and then kicking them to defeat them. Paragoombas also get their own big counterpart in this game.

No regular Big Goombas appear in Super Mario 3D Land. However, a variant called Big Tail Goombas appear instead; they are Big Goombas that have striped tails. They appear only rarely, and have the same attack pattern as a normal Tail Goomba. As such, one stomp to the head or swipe of the tail as Tanooki Mario defeats one, but gives three coins instead of one for a normal Goomba.

Big Goombas reappear in New Super Mario Bros. U. They act the same as in New Super Mario Bros. Wii. When stomped or Ground Pounded, they still split into two Hefty Goombas or four normal-sized Goombas, respectively, but they now require three fireballs to take out and can now be defeated by Koopa Shells. They are found in Soda Jungle's course Jungle of the Giants and in a challenge called Big Goomba Bounce Bash.

Big Goombas reappear in Super Mario Maker, its Nintendo 3DS version, and Super Mario Maker 2 as enemies. In these games, jumping on one will split it into two normal-sized Goombas, similar to a Hefty Goomba. This applies to all styles, even though they did not have this feature in Super Mario Bros. 3. They can be made in the Course Maker by dragging a Super Mushroom onto a regular Goomba. A Big Goomba can also be given wings to turn into a Big Paragoomba. They can be placed in Warp Pipes, Bill Blasters, Blocks, and placed on tracks. Big Galoombas return as well.

Big Goombas reappear in Super Mario Bros. Wonder first appearing in The Sharp Trial: Launch to Victory and later in Bowser's Rage Stage, where the Goombas have grown due to the Wonder ability. Just like in the New Super Mario Bros. games, stomping on them causes them to split into two Hefty Goombas, though some also have dandelion pappi as parachutes similar to Parachute Galoombas.

An uncommonly large Grand Goomba, thought to be the progenitor of the sub-species, appears in Koopa Capers, having been presumably brought to Dark Land by Wendy O. Koopa, who needed some of its leg hairs for a potion she wants to create. After crossing a Podoboo-infested body of lava in the Magma Pits, Luigi encounters the Grand Goomba wandering around aimlessly, and if he decides to crawl between its legs, he will go unnoticed by the giant fungus. If he decides to try and jump onto a nearby ledge instead however, the Grand Goomba will grab him mid-leap, stuff him in a sack, and begin to head home to the Land of the Giants, muttering that Luigi will make "a lovely plumber omelet".

In Mario's Picross, a Grand Goomba appears in one of the puzzles.

In the Super Smash Bros. series, Big Goombas are encountered as enemies in certain single-player modes. In Super Smash Bros. Brawl, Giant Goombas, as they are named, appear as an enemy in The Subspace Emissary. Giant Goombas behave identically to regular Goombas, charging at the player upon noticing them. Giant Goombas now require more hits to defeat, either by stomping it five times or hitting it a number of times. In Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS, Big Goombas are enemies in Smash Run, and are now weaker so that only three jumps are enough to defeat them.

A Giant Goomba appears as a boss in Ultimate Figure Skating in the Nintendo DS version of Mario & Sonic at the Olympic Winter Games. It appears as the boss for the Mario, Mario & Sonic and Mario & Sonic Download medleys, and can be defeated by performing step attacks.

A Big Goomba appears in Mario Golf: World Tour on Hole 2 of Wiggler Park. Because it appears behind the green, it is unlikely that the player should hit the ball into it. If they manage to do so, it will cause the Big Goomba to look around wondering what just happened while the player's ball would likely land Out of Bounds.

Mega Goomba makes its first Mario Party appearance in Mario Party 10, although prior to this, Mario Party 8 introduced a Mega Goomba character named Captain Goomba. In Mario Party 10, a Mega Goomba is a boss fought in Mega Goomba's Ladder Leap, which involves players climbing up to a higher platform and jumping down onto it to deal damage. After enough hits, Mega Goomba is defeated. A Mega Goomba is also a boss in Mario Party: Star Rush, more specifically the first boss. His boss minigame, Mega Goomba's Bad Dream, has the players collect 25 apples when he is asleep. When Mega Goomba stops sleeping, players need to collect another 25 apples, though he attacks players who approach the apple pile. After the minigame ends, a butterfly appears and Mega Goomba chases it. In Toad Scramble mode, the winner gets one Star (two Stars if it is fought as the final boss of the board).

Mega Goombas appear in Paper Mario: Color Splash as enemies fought in Mondo Woods. They were originally normal-sized Goombas until they were enlarged by Kamek's magic. Mega Goombas attack by jumping on Mario, doing 33 HP of damage.