A Mega Mushroom is a type of mushroom that enlarges the user temporarily, allowing them to walk over and destroy most objects in their path, including large and powerful enemies. A Mega Mushroom was first seen in Mario Party 4, where it was depicted as a normally proportioned mushroom with a turquoise cap; in New Super Mario Bros., it received a more distinctive design, being much bigger, bearing a bulbous yellow cap with red spots, a similar coloration to the Super Mushrooms in Super Mario Bros. and Super Mario Bros.: The Lost Levels. A Mega Mushroom hops along the ground and, in their initial appearance, would actively flee from Mario. Its opposite counterpart is the Mini Mushroom, which shrinks the character.
In Super Mario 64 DS and the Super Smash Bros. series, the Super Mushroom has a similar effect to Mega Mushrooms in other games.

A Mega Mushroom first appeared in Mario Party 4, with a turquoise cap somewhat similar to a 1-Up Mushroom, but with a brighter and less saturated contrast. It can be obtained by landing on a Mushroom Space, purchasing it from an item shop, getting it from an Item Bag, or winning a mini-game on the board. A Mega Mushroom allows the character to roll two Dice Blocks (and move 2-20 spaces), and enlarge them to a gigantic size that lets them flatten other characters and steal ten coins from them as they stomp across the board. However, board events will be bypassed (except for events involving Bowser at Bowser's Gnarly Party). If the character rolls the same number on both Dice Blocks, they get 10 coins (30 coins for two "7's"). Additionally, another variant titled the Super Mega Mushroom is available, bearing a translucent blue cap. It has the same effect, although it gives the user three Dice Blocks instead of two.

A Mega Mushroom made a second appearance in the series in Mario Party 10, using their modern design as depicted from New Super Mario Bros. onward. A Mega Mushroom will only appear in the amiibo Party mode, and act similar to how it did in Mario Party 4, where the user will become giant and steal coins from opponents upon passing them.

In Mario Party: Star Rush, a Mega Mushroom appears in the Boss Battle minigame Bowser's Space Race, where grabbing it causes the character to become giant and earn three points from throwing their bomb at Bowser.

In Mario Party: The Top 100 and Mario Party Superstars, a Mega Mushroom appears in the updated minigame from Mario Party 3, Mush Pit, replacing the Mushrooms from the original game.

Mega Mushrooms are items in Mario Pinball Land. They appear as red-capped mushrooms closely resembling traditional Super Mushrooms. They allow Mario to instantly defeat enemies when hit, even ones that are normally simply bumped around, like penguins.

In Mario Kart Arcade GP, the Mega Mushroom appears under the name Giant Mushroom. It is an item obtainable from the Item Box. When players use this item, their player character and kart temporarily grow bigger.

In Mario Kart Arcade GP 2, the Giant Mushroom has the same role as it does in Mario Kart Arcade GP.

In Mario Kart Wii, the Mega Mushroom returns as an item obtainable from the Item Box, making its console Mario Kart series debut. Racers can obtain it if they are anywhere from 4th to 8th place, with them also being able to obtain it in 9th place in VS races. The best chance of obtaining this item is in 6th place, with a 10 percent (4 out of 40) chance of obtaining it in that position. In addition to growing bigger, this item causes the player character's voice to become deeper and lower-pitched. Furthermore, it now offers the ability to squish opponents for a certain amount of time (similar to Thwomps), causing them to reduce their speed and lose their items. While this item is active, controlled characters receive a speed boost and cannot slow down when going off-road, and they are invincible to all dangerous things, except for the Star, Bullet Bill, and Blooper, giving them the ability to destroy any items or any course obstacles, except those that are big and metallic (such as Chain Chomps). If racers get hit by Lightning while they are big, they shrink back to normal size rather than become tiny as the effect cancels it out. The effect also ends prematurely if they fall off the course. The Mega Mushroom's theme music from New Super Mario Bros. is played for the duration of the item's effect.
Players with a Star can knock Mega Mushroom players aside without any adverse effects themselves. A player under the effects of both a Mega Mushroom and a Star can knock most other players aside (normal-sized Star users included). Up to two Mega Mushrooms can be in play at a time.

In Mario Kart Arcade GP DX, the Giant Mushroom has the same role as it does in Mario Kart Arcade GP and Mario Kart Arcade GP 2.

The Mega Mushroom reappears in Mario Kart Tour and works the same way as it did in its appearance Mario Kart Wii. It is the only item introduced in that game to return in Mario Kart Tour. However, Mega characters are vulnerable to rival racers' items, reverting to normal size if hit, and they do not gain speed nor off-road advantages. Also, the music does not change while the item is in effect. Starting from the version 2.12.0 update, players will receive points for hitting Mega opponents.
If the player runs into an Item Box as they crash and they have Auto Item activated, the growth caused by any Mega Mushroom used up from their inventory instantly recovers their driver from the crash.
Artwork of a Mega Mushroom appears on a billboard for a clothing brand, also called Mega Mushroom, in Wii Coconut Mall.
The following gliders increase the chance of getting Mega Mushrooms and points for hitting racers while under the effects of one.

Coconut Mall returns in Mario Kart 8 Deluxe as part of the Booster Course Pass DLC. Towards the end of the course, the large billboard advertising the Mega Mushroom clothing brand appears here, like in Mario Kart Tour, complete with the large vector art of the mushroom.

A Mega Mushroom appears in New Super Mario Bros., where it would be given its current design. It is now orange with red spots, and is much bigger than before. Like its past incarnations, it causes Mario to grow to Mega Mario. In this colossal form, Mario can stomp across the level and crush near anything in his path - enemies, blocks, Warp Pipes, and even the flagpole at the end of the level. Additionally, Ground Pounding in Mega form occasionally causes a group of Goombas or coins (or both) to fall from above. Destroying items and objects fills the Mega Meter at the top with yellow. Each segment turns green as it is fully filled; when Mario shrinks back to Super Mario, a 1-Up Mushroom appears for each green segment filled, up to a maximum of five 1-Ups. A Mega Mushroom is rarely found, and can come from Orange Toad Houses, Red Flying ? Blocks, or Hammer Bros. on the World Map. A Mega Mushroom appears only in four levels: Worlds 1-1, 1-2, 4-4 and 7-5. If Mario or Luigi ground pounds a block containing a Mega Mushroom, it still appears from above. They are not completely invincible in this form, however; landing on bricks that cover a large enough gap risks Mega Mario smashing through and falling, while lava and poison still instantly cost them a life on contact.
A Mega Mushroom is also available as a power-up in the Mario vs. Luigi mode, serving a similar function. Mega Mario and Luigi can damage their opponent and knock out a Big Star upon contact. A Mega Mushroom can appear if a player collects eight coins, but this will only happen to the player with the fewest Big Stars.
In the E3 2005 trailer build and at least one of the 2005 demo builds of New Super Mario Bros., the Mega Mushroom had the same colors as the Super Mushroom, but it was changed to a yellow cap with red spots in the final version. This was possibly meant to resemble the original colors of a Super Mushroom from Super Mario Bros.

Mega Mushrooms are items in New Super Mario Bros. 2. They retain the same function in New Super Mario Bros. and are rare items like before. However, Mega Mushrooms now appear only by launching some fireballs in an ! Pipe from World 1-2, World 5-6, and World Mushroom-3, though two in a ? Block do appear each in the third level of the Gold Rush Pack and the first level of the Coin Challenge Pack C, and another one appears in the first level of the Gold Classics Pack. In addition, though Mario cannot gain 1-Ups for the destruction he causes, he can obtain three 1-Up Mushrooms by destroying the Goal Pole; this can only be done in World 5-6. Despite there being two players, only one Mega Mushroom will appear in co-op mode, allowing only one player to turn into their Mega form. Unlike New Super Mario Bros., a Mega Mushroom is not found in Toad Houses and cannot be put in the reserve box.

A Mega Mushroom makes a return in Super Mario 3D World along with its enhanced Switch port, Super Mario 3D World + Bowser's Fury (in the Super Mario 3D World mode only), making it the item's first appearance in a 3D Super Mario title. It works as it did in New Super Mario Bros. However, if someone ground pounds, they now create a small shockwave that strikes all nearby blocks and enemies. As in the other games, Mega characters can destroy Warp Pipes. Mega characters will also revert to Super form upon entering a Warp Box. Also, the characters' voices now become slightly lower-pitched while the power-up is active, a similar mechanic in Mario Kart Wii, and the Super Mushroom in the Super Smash Bros. games. Just as the Mega Mushroom is about to wear off, the music speeds up, unlike the sidescrolling games in the series. A Mega Mushroom appears in seven levels: Super Bell Hill, The Bullet Bill Express, Tricky Trapeze Theater, Rainbow Run, Super Block Land, Gargantuan Grotto and Gigantic Seasick Wreck.
Although this power-up is absent from the Bowser's Fury mode of Super Mario 3D World + Bowser's Fury, there is an unused power-up in its coding called the KinokoGiga, which translates to "Giga Mushroom". It is almost identical in appearance to the Mega Mushroom, but is larger and has its colors inverted (it has a red cap with yellow spots). It also has a similar albeit more extreme effect on Mario: it transforms Mario into a state that is identical to when he takes damage as Giga Cat Mario.

In Super Mario Run, a Mega Mushroom makes a cameo appearance as a statue in Kingdom Builder. It can be won from the Bonus Game in Remix 10 mode as a 4★ item.

Although the Mega Mushroom does not appear in Super Mario Odyssey, some mushrooms in the Mushroom Kingdom closely resemble the design of a Mega Mushroom.

The Mega Mushroom appears in Super Smash Bros. Brawl as a sticker. In [[:smashwiki:Adventure Mode: The Subspace Emissary |]], it can be used by any fighter to raise the amount of damage healed by food by 2 percent.

In Mario & Luigi: Bowser's Inside Story, during his Vacuum command tutorial, Broque Monsieur sometimes attacks by using a Mega Mushroom to make himself giant. Bowser needs to punch his body to avoid being rammed. This will knock Broque Monsieur's (still giant) head off, so Bowser can punch it to earn extra coins until his body picks it up again. In Mario & Luigi: Bowser's Inside Story + Bowser Jr.'s Journey, along with Broque Monsieur using the Mega Mushroom, Bowser Memory M uses the Mega Mushroom as a part of one of its attacks (replacing the Super Mushroom from the original game).

A Mega Mushroom appears as a part of Luigi's Bros. Attack Mega Thwonk in Mario & Luigi: Paper Jam, where Luigi eats one to become giant. The effect wears off after the attack is performed.

Mega Mushrooms are items in both the Wii version and Nintendo DS version of Mario & Sonic at the Olympic Winter Games. In the console version, Mega Mushrooms are items in Dream Ice Hockey, where they increase the size of the user as well as their defense and speed; Dream Curling, where they increase the size of the stone; and Dream Snowball Fight, where they increase the size of the character, making them twice as resistant and causing all of their snowballs to deal double damage. In the handheld version, Mega Mushrooms are items in Curling Bowling, and similarly to Dream Curling of the Wii version, this increases the size of the stone when it slides over, giving it more power but making it harder to curl.

Mega Mushrooms are items in Mario Tennis: Ultra Smash. They turn the character giant, allowing them to hit the ball more easily. Instead of the original music from New Super Mario Bros., a rock cover of the original tune plays when being powered up from the Mega Mushroom. The effect lasts for 30 seconds, but can end prematurely if the character endures a Body Shot. As in Mario Kart Wii and Super Mario 3D World, the characters' voices will become slightly lower-pitched and echoing while the power-up is active. Three seconds before the item wears off, the character flashes white before reverting back to normal size.

In Paper Mario: Color Splash, a small Toad in the Sacred Forest asks Mario if he has eaten a Mega Mushroom.

In Mario + Rabbids Kingdom Battle, artwork of a Mega Mushroom can be found on a poster in the laboratory in the introductory cutscene.

A Mega Mushroom makes its first Mario Golf appearance in Mario Golf: Super Rush. It is used in Toad's special strike, Super Toad Strike, where the ball is affected by the Mega Mushroom.

The Mega Mushroom makes a cameo appearance in the Wii U version of Tekken Tag Tournament 2 as part of its exclusive content.

The Mega Mushroom was originally going to return in New Super Mario Bros. Wii, but was removed from the final game due to causing a problem with multiplayer: the character would be able to destroy everything while taking up space on the screen.

The Mega Mushroom was originally slated to return in Mario Kart 7, along with the Fake Item Box, but both were omitted from the official release.