Merluvlee is a character in the Paper Mario series. She always appears in the role of a fortune teller, although the exact nature of her clues varies from game to game. According to Wonky, Merluvlee comes from a tribe that names people based on their profession, implying that every Merluvlee met may be a separate individual. It is possible that the aforementioned tribe is actually the Tribe of Ancients; Merluvlee expressly stated herself to be a descendant in Super Paper Mario.
Merluvlee's name is a portmanteau of "Merlon" (therefore making her indirectly named after the fictional wizard Merlin) and a corruption of the word "lovely", which several characters use to describe her. A Dryite's dialogue in Dry Dry Outpost contains a typo that refers to Merluvlee as Merluvee. Merluvlee is revealed to be 25 years old in Paper Mario: The Thousand-Year Door by an email sent to Mario.

In Paper Mario, Merluvlee lives in a house on Shooting Star Summit, with her brother Merlow. Throughout the game, many characters comment that she is the most beautiful woman they have ever seen. Somewhat comically, the player is never allowed to see her face, because she always wears a hood. She is also notable for being the owner of the companion to the mysterious chest in Peach's castle. According to a gossip-loving Toad near Tayce T.'s house in Toad Town, one of Merluvlee's hobbies is cultivating bonsai trees.
For one of Koopa Koot's favors, Mario is requested to retrieve Merluvlee's autograph. The reward for doing so is three Star Pieces, making this one of Koot's more lucrative favors.
She can predict the locations of Star Pieces, Badges and Super Blocks. For the Star Pieces, she charges 5 coins, and can only predict 63 of 160, namely those found in the overworld instead of owned by characters. For the Badges, she charges 20 coins, and can predict all but Power Jump which Mario already acquires. For the Super Blocks, she charges 30 coins, and can predict all of them.

In the sequel to Paper Mario, Merluvlee lives in a house on the east side of Rogueport Underground's main square. Though she can no longer see the locations of badges, she can still tell Mario where Star Pieces are hidden, she has gained the ability to locate Shine Sprites, and she can tell Mario what to do to progress generally in the game. She charges five coins for Star Pieces and ten coins for the locations of Shine Sprites. For the next destination, she charges double the number of Mario's current level in coins. 
Once again, characters comment on her beauty, and once again, the player never sees her face.
As Mario cannot return to Rogueport in the midst of later chapters, Merluvlee has significantly less to say about where he must go next in them.

In Super Paper Mario Merluvlee lives in Flipside. Here, she is Merlee's rival and has been ever since they were classmates. They share the same theme music, which is titled "The Road for the Lost". Merluvlee wears 3D glasses and has a chant very similar to that of Queen Jaydes.
She can be paid 20 coins to give fortunes. Once paid, she will perform a dramatic chant and give the player a hint as to what they should do next in order to progress.
Merluvlee is part of a long sidequest to get a new crystal ball for Merlee. She needs a training machine (which looks like a Nintendo DS) which belongs to Bestovius. When Mario and co. get this for her, she will give Merlee's Crystal Ball to Mario and friends. Merluvlee mentions that she and Merlee are 'even' when she gives the Crystal Ball, possibly a reference to the original Paper Mario, in which Mario had to give Merluvlee a crystal ball from Merlee.