Merry Mountain is a Christmas-themed race course from Mario Kart Tour. The course takes place around a small, festive village by a foggy mountain decorated with Christmas presents and candy canes. Merry Mountain debuted as the featured course in the 2020 Winter Tour. This was the first new course in the game that is not based on a real-life city or a previous course. It is also the first original course that isn't a remix course to appear in normal tours.
Several Toads, Yoshis, and Shy Guys act as audience members in the village segment of the course. There are several flying sleigh-like trains with audience members in the course, flying around the mountain and riding the course's railroad. At the time of the course's release, Merry Mountain was one of a few courses in the game that appeared in a tour with festive trees to not have any of them, presumably due to the course already having a Christmas theme.
Merry Mountain reappears as a classic course in the Mario Kart 8 Deluxe – Booster Course Pass as the third course of the Moon Cup.

The race course begins at the snowy village on the mountain's base, with a couple of bends in the road before moving into the rocky cliffside area. There is a split in the road at the cliffside; the lower path features a dirt road with coins, and the upper path features a railroad bridge, which lets the driver boost on a Dash Panel onto another suspended ramp, allowing them to trick a second time. After the split path, there is a wooden bridge which takes the driver further up the mountain, which is decorated with candles, Christmas presents, and candy canes. After several turns in the road, there is a large bump in the road allowing the player to trick. There is a tower of large presents at the top of the mountain, where a gondola lift of presents feeds into. The peak of the mountain features a super half-pipe giving the player a speed boost, at which point the race track goes down the mountain's steep slope. The road to the finish line features a wide Dash Panel beginning the descend down the mountain, with a snowy ramp and two Dash Panels on each side of the road following after. Finally, the track ends with a ramp allowing the player to jump over a bottomless pit beneath the mountain's base, and onto the finish line back at the village.
The course also appears as Merry Mountain R (reversed), Merry Mountain T (with ramps), and Merry Mountain R/T (reversed with ramps). The former two debuted alongside the normal variant in the 2020 Winter Tour, while the latter debuted later in the 2021 Holiday Tour. In the T variant, there is a glide ramp at the end of the track. In the R/T variant, there are several snowmen near the top of the hill.

For this course's tour appearances, see List of Merry Mountain tour appearances in Mario Kart Tour.

Select "show" to reveal the drivers, karts, and gliders for which Merry Mountain and its variants are always favored or favorite courses. For instances in which additional drivers, karts, and gliders temporarily had this course and its variants as favored or favorite courses, see List of Merry Mountain tour appearances in Mario Kart Tour.

Merry Mountain makes its classic course debut in Mario Kart 8 Deluxe as part of the third wave of the Booster Course Pass; first shown in the September 2022 Nintendo Direct, it and DS Peach Gardens were the first two courses to be revealed for the wave (the announcement of which used Merry Mountain's music), with its theming tying in to the wave's release in December. It is the third course of the Moon Cup. The course has received significant visual upgrades from its appearance in Mario Kart Tour. An anti-gravity panel has been added on top of the snowy ramp before the half-pipe, fitting the road leading up to and down from the hilltop workshop with anti-gravity, complete with Spin Boost Pillars on the downwards slope. The half-pipe at the mountain's apex is retained, introducing the mechanic to Mario Kart 8 Deluxe for the first time alongside Wii Maple Treeway. Rather than featuring arrows as in previous games, the half-pipe panel has the appearance and effect of an Antigravity Panel. Double Item Boxes now appear in the air above the half-pipe. A Glide Ramp has also been added to the jump near the end of the downwards slope that appears beginning on lap 2. The minimap has also been rotated 90 degrees clockwise. Merry Mountain is one of five courses in Mario Kart 8 Deluxe to contain a map of itself, alongside Mario Kart Stadium, Water Park, Rainbow Road, and GCN Yoshi Circuit.
Like Ninja Hideaway and Piranha Plant Cove, the course does not use a "Tour" prefix in-game, though it is highlighted in promotional material as being from Mario Kart Tour. Certain promotional material gives it the "Tour" prefix.
Merry Mountain is one of three courses from Mario Kart Tour to be added in the third wave of the DLC, alongside Tour London Loop and Tour Berlin Byways. It is also the only Tour track that is neither the first nor the last course of its cup.