Message Blocks are blocks that provide tips and hints to player characters in various platforming titles of the Super Mario franchise. Message Blocks make their first appearance in Super Mario World.

Message Blocks first appear in Super Mario World, where they usually describe a new level in the beginning stages of the game or explain a new game mechanic, known as Tourist Tips. Unlike later appearances, these Message Blocks feature no face in Super Mario World but instead look like blue blocks with an orange speaker. They reappear in the port Super Mario World: Super Mario Advance 2.

In the NES version of Mario's Time Machine, similar blocks known as information boxes (or info boxes) make an appearance to provide hints.

In Super Mario World 2: Yoshi's Island and its Game Boy Advance version, Message Blocks (also named Messages and Information Blocks) teach the player controls and give tips rather than provide information outright.
This is the first game where Message Blocks appear as a white block with a smiley facial expression and yellow cheeks, a look that they have retained in most of their returning appearances.

In Yoshi's Island DS, Message Blocks (also named Hint Blocks) are much the same as before, but return to their Super Mario World 2: Yoshi's Island form.

Message Blocks return in Yoshi's New Island. Their instructions change depending on the control type used, whether it is traditional button-style egg-throwing or gyro tilt to aim. Some Message Block hints additionally automatically appear when a Yoshi does an action for the first time, such as dropping Baby Mario. Message Blocks can also explain stage features in a level new to players such as instructing to ground pound a Tatami Block. A list of all Message Block hints can be found here.

In Yoshi's Story, Message Blocks (or Message Boxes) have the exact same role as in Super Mario World 2: Yoshi's Island. They were made a lot bigger, and their mouths continually move.

Message Blocks in Super Smash Bros. appear in the stage Yoshi's Island where two can be seen in the background along with the Super Happy Tree and are referred to as face blocks in the Super Smash Bros. official strategy guide. The same stage also makes a reappearance as playable for the sequel, Super Smash Bros. Melee, along with Super Smash Bros. Ultimate.

In Mario vs. Donkey Kong, there are Help Boxes that act similar to Message Blocks and give hints when hit from any side. They are black boxes with the word "HELP" and a question mark written in white. They appear in several levels, and show how to perform Mario's moves. If the game's language is set to any language other than English in the European version, the Help Boxes appear as black boxes with only a white question mark.
In the game's remake for the Nintendo Switch, the box has a lavender outline, and now features a question mark in the modern Super Mario typeface across all regions. Help Boxes are removed from the level if it is played in Time Attack mode.

In Super Princess Peach, there are blocks that act similar to Message Blocks and give hints when hit from any side. They are referred to as "kassarbrock" in their internal file names, which is Japanese for "Perry Block". They are yellow and blue, resembling Perry. In every boss level, before Peach enters the pipe, they appear warning the player about the boss and providing tips on how to defeat it.

Only five Message Blocks appear in Yoshi's Woolly World, with three in the first level and two in the third. They retain the appearance from Yoshi's Island DS; however, their mouths now continually move, like in Yoshi's Story. Their cheeks are pink this time.

Message Blocks return in Yoshi's Crafted World, behaving exactly the same as in past appearances.

The Message Block as seen in Super Mario World appears in concept art for the Jaxi in Super Mario Odyssey, where it is part of the bus stop.