Miis are digital avatars used in many Nintendo consoles, including the Wii, Nintendo 3DS, Wii U, and Nintendo Switch. Miis are based on human beings, and players can design what their Miis look like and use them in compatible games. Miis have appeared in at least one game of the Super Mario franchise on each of these consoles.
Miis get their name from how the word "me" would be written in rōmaji, in the same way that the Wii gets its name from a similar spelling of "we."

In the WarioWare series, Miis first appear in WarioWare: Smooth Moves, where they are used in several microgames. Miis appear in a few other microgames in later WarioWare games. In WarioWare: D.I.Y.'s Tightrope, based on the Tightrope Walk minigame in Wii Fit, the object is to prevent a male Mii from falling while holding a pole and crossing a tightrope. In WarioWare Gold, the save file's Mii appears in the Tomodachi Life microgame, and the Mii's name is used in Dungeon Dilemma.
Miis have a few other roles in the WarioWare series. In WarioWare: Smooth Moves and WarioWare Gold, they represent personal files for the players. Additionally, in WarioWare: Smooth Moves, Miis are used in the multiplayer mode to represent those playing, and the game's developers are represented in the credits as Miis wearing different costumes, such as Mario's and Wario's overalls. In WarioWare Gold, the selected Mii is the protagonist in the story.

In Mario Party 8, Miis are playable characters and are sometimes seen in the background of mini-games, which are only playable in the "Extras" section. The Miis in this game wear overalls, gloves, and shoes like the Mario brothers. The shirt they wear depends on the player's color (blue for P1, red for P2, green for P3, and yellow for P4), not their favorite color. Miis are also available to personalize players' file. Miis have no voices in this game.

Miis are playable in most games in the Mario & Sonic series, since Mario & Sonic at the Olympic Games. All of their playable appearances are in the home console releases, except the Nintendo 3DS version of Mario & Sonic at the Rio 2016 Olympic Games, which even has them as only one of the three characters who can be played in any event, alongside Mario and Sonic. In Mario & Sonic at the Olympic Games, Mii characters have four possible predetermined stats, based on their size, and they do not have any voices, unlike the other characters.
Since the Wii version of Mario & Sonic at the Olympic Winter Games, the player can customize their Miis to wear different clothing items and accessories, including ones based on the playable characters, and doing so alters their Mii's stats accordingly. In Mario & Sonic at the Olympic Winter Games, some of the bosses from Festival Mode also give off their costumes for Miis to wear once defeated. In the Wii version of Mario & Sonic at the London 2012 Olympic Games, various Mii costumes can be earned when playing in the Olympic events and the London Party mode. In Mario & Sonic at the Sochi 2014 Olympic Winter Games, Miis will actually show what type their clothing makes them. Like with their playable status, the Nintendo 3DS version of Mario & Sonic at the Rio 2016 Olympic Games is the only handheld Mario & Sonic game where Miis can be customized. The game also allows for their gear to be customized, granting them different effects in the events. In the Wii U version, the player controls the Mii of the account around Copacabana Beach, and competes against other Miis in tournaments to win medals.
The player's Mii is the primary character in the Road to Rio mode of Mario & Sonic at the Rio 2016 Olympic Games for the Nintendo 3DS. It also has Miis who act as townsfolk and opponents, but unlike the playable Miis, they have text dialogue. Two Miis, known as the Boy in Mario Suit and Boy in Sonic Suit, also appear as recurring characters.
Mario & Sonic at the Olympic Games Tokyo 2020 is the only unique game of the Mario & Sonic series that does not have any Miis. Part of the reasoning for their exclusion was due to the release of Sega's Olympic Games Tokyo 2020 - The Official Video Game in the same year, also available for the Nintendo Switch, which featured a similar premise of avatar characters competing in the Olympics with customizable costumes.

In Dr. Mario Online Rx, Miis are able to replace Dr. Mario as the playable character. Here, they must maneuver Capsules tossed into a glass jar in order to destroy the Viruses. In order for a virus to be destroyed, it must be connected to at least one capsule of the same color. Unlike Doctor Mario, Miis speak. Miis can tell the player how many minutes have passed and how many capsules they've thrown.

In Mario Kart Wii, Miis first appear as spectators, found in various race courses such as Daisy Circuit. They also appear in posters, and other signs, as seen in Coconut Mall, and represent different players on in-game licenses.
After winning the Special Cup on 100cc, Miis can be unlocked as playable characters. There are two outfits available for Miis, and both are unlocked individually. The first one (Outfit A), which is available when the Mii character option is unlocked, is a plain racing suit of his/her favorite color, represented by a blue Mii logo. The other (Outfit B), which is unlocked by unlocking all 32 Expert Staff Ghosts in Time Trials mode, depends on the gender of the Mii, represented by a red Mii logo. If the Mii is male, he receives blue overalls over a shirt of his favorite color (similar to Mario), and if the Mii is female, she receives a minidress of her favorite color, loosely resembling Princess Peach's gown, though unlike Peach, Daisy, and Rosalina, female Miis do not get a separate outfit for bikes. Originally, a Mii Outfit C was going to be added, but was cut from the final version of the game.
Miis also receive generic voices for the first time, not counting the small background noises they made in Wii Play's Shooting Range event. There are four different voice recordings for both male and female Miis; a different voice is given to each gender and favorite color combination, with the pitch being higher or lower depending on the Mii's size. The weight class for the Mii driver depends on the size given to it in the Mii Channel. If the Mii's height is above average, then it will be large; if the Mii's height is below average, then it will be medium; and if the Mii's height stays average while the weight is below average, then it will be small. All Miis have +3 speed and Mini-Turbo bonuses regardless of size.
A kart's color scheme changes depending on the Mii's gender: primarily blue for males, and primarily pink for females. Notably, when any player plays as a Mii, statues and pictures in various courses, including one battle course, seen in Moonview Highway, Luigi Circuit, DK Summit, Dry Dry Ruins, Toad's Factory, Koopa Cape, Wario's Gold Mine, Daisy Circuit, and Block Plaza, will replace the character heads with that of Mii heads, consisting of the Miis saved on the player's Wii console, as long as at least one Mii is created on the player's system. Depending on whichever Mii is present on the player's license, the cutscene that plays during the game's credits will show that Mii's head on the Luigi statue regardless of whether or not the player was playing as their Mii.

Miis later appear as racing participants in the Nintendo 3DS title, Mario Kart 7. They can be unlocked by completing all the Grand Prix cups in 50cc and are the only unlockable characters who do not have to be unlocked from a 150cc cup. Unlike in Mario Kart Wii, however, all the Miis get the same stat boosts and are the same weight (in this case, medium, as Mario and Luigi), which are at around average levels, and they have new voice clips. Miis also appear as spectators in several courses. Also, the Miis have two of their own courses, Wuhu Loop & Maka Wuhu, as well as their own battle course, Wuhu Town. All of these courses are based on the Wuhu Island setting, a fictional location that first appeared in Wii Sports Resort.

Miis appear as unlockable playable characters in Mario Kart 8. Here, they are the only unlockable characters who are not unlocked at random, always being the eighth character to be unlocked. Their weight class is based on their size, just as in Mario Kart Wii, and their voices from that game return but in a higher pitch. The Miis also sport a new outfit unlike their appearances in Mario Kart Wii and Mario Kart 7 where they now wear a new racing suit (which is similar to the biker suits that Peach, Daisy, Rosalina, and Pink Gold Peach wear) with some white trimmings, a helmet with their color, and a light-colored scarf similar to the ones Peach, Daisy, and Rosalina wear along with black short boots. However, certain colored Miis have a unique coloring scheme. As of version 4.1, the player can also scan one of 19 amiibo into the game to obtain a racing suit and helmet for Miis based upon the scanned character. If the Miis have not been unlocked yet, they will be when any amiibo is scanned.
Miis return in the Nintendo Switch port Mario Kart 8 Deluxe, this time available from the start, a first in the Mario Kart series. All of the amiibo racing suits return in this game along with an additional 20th costume based on the Splatoon series.
In addition to their playable roles, Miis also constitute the audience in Mario Kart TV and represent players in online and local lobbies. In Mario Kart 8, Miis in online lobbies wear the regular Mii outfit of a colored shirt; this was changed in Mario Kart 8 Deluxe to have them wearing default racing suits that match their color.
For Wave 6, seventeen Mii Racing Suits debuting from Mario Kart Tour were added to Mario Kart 8 Deluxe for players who have purchased the Booster Course Pass. In addition, a Daisy Suit was added as the 21st costume that can be unlocked with amiibo.

Miis appear in Mario Kart Tour starting with their self-named tour in 2022, the Mii Tour, and they have their own self-named cup, the Mii Cup. They are High-End drivers available in different racing suits which come in waves. All of the standard racing suit colors, along with all of the Super Mario-themed amiibo racing suits from Mario Kart 8, return in this game, while the rest of the racing suits are new. Unlike in Mario Kart 8, the black suit now covers the entire helmet in black, rather than just the top stripe like the other colors.
Mii Racing Suits only gain one extra favorite track upon reaching levels three and six, rather than two each like with other High-End drivers, karts or gliders. Each racing suit has their own special skill, with suits based on a playable character sharing their special skill with their character (with the sole exception of the Daisy Mii Racing Suit, which uses Triple Bananas while Daisy herself uses the Heart). Some racing suits have unique Jump Boost animations and race finishing animations, in some cases being based on the character the suit is designed after (in the case of the bronze, silver, and gold suits, they use Metal Mario's animations). 
During Mii Tours, the player could collect team tokens by racing as a Mii. 
Players that create a Mii on their Nintendo Account can add that Mii to the game and assign them to the racing suits in the settings, with up to ten different Miis able to be saved. Otherwise, the player can choose a pre-made Mii instead, which consists of the CPU Miis featured in Wii Sports Club and Wii Party U. They have new voice clips in this game which, unlike previous games, are the same regardless of the Mii's gender. This is also the first time in the series where Miis can appear as CPU opponents.

1 - This Mii Racing Suit has unique in-game animations.
2 - Also simply referred to as the Cat suit
3 - Collectively referred to as Koopaling Mii Racing Suits
4 - Also written as Iggy Mii Racing suit

Miis are playable characters in the game  Mario Super Sluggers. Miis cannot be chosen as team captains, but up to 8 Miis can be used. Mii stats in this game are 6/10 and chemistry with other characters is based solely on favorite color (excluding Diddy Kong) e.g. red Miis have chemistry with Mario, green Miis have chemistry with Luigi, pink with Peach, etc. Miis of the same color but opposite genders also have chemistry with each other. Also, they possess the quick throw ability, which allows the players to make faster throws to teammates.
All male Miis are right-handed batters in this game, while the female Miis are left-handed batters and unaffected by Heart Swing. However, both genders are right-handed fielders. They do not speak in the game.

Miis are one of the nineteen playable participants in Mario Sports Mix. They are the all-rounder (All-Around) type, with Mario, Luigi, Yoshi, and Ninja. Regardless of their height and width, they all receive the same stats: 3/5 in every stat. The color of their outfits depend on their favorite color and their clothing depends on their gender; if the Mii is male, he receives a sporting outfit, while if the Mii is female, she receives a skirt. Miis are also seen as spectators.
Their special ability is very similar to Mario's special ability; they throw the object into a goal which can be blocked by a struggle of the opponent. In Dodgeball, the shot causes a damage radius that hits anyone inside the radius. Miis receive voices in this game, a quality somewhat rare in games they appear playable in.
On a side note, Miis will never appear as opponents in tournaments.
Miis make a real life appearance in various commercials to help promote the game in North America. They are sports anchors during these commercials under the names Mii-guel (later Michael) and Mii-chelle (later Lisa), showing gameplay footage to the players in various segments, such as the Super Top 3 Show. They also announced the Mario Press Conference on the day of the game's release, asking questions for Mario. During the opening to the conference, the Miis' names are listed as Miichael and Miimi. 

Miis appear as playable characters from the beginning of Fortune Street. If the player decides to start a solo profile, they have to choose a Mii for their profile. The only characters the player can use in solo mode is their Miis. The player can unlock clothes to dress up their Mii in the Dressing Room. Miis do not say anything to the other players; the time where they would talk is replaced by two of the Mii's opponents talking to each other. The color of the Mii's shop depends on the color of the Mii, but if one or more Miis have the same color, they will be changed depending upon order chosen.

Miis also appear in the Nintendo 3DS title Mario Tennis Open as playable characters. Miis can be given different stats when they wear different clothes or costumes and have different rackets. When a Mii is equipped with a full gear set based on a character, enemy, or item, all stats will be boosted. Miis do not earn a star rank after winning all Mario Open cups. Only human players can control Miis; they cannot be selected as CPU-controlled characters.

Miis make their first appearance in New Super Mario Bros. U as playable characters only in the Boost Rush, Challenge, and Coin Battle Modes (although they were intended to also be playable in the Story Mode). The Miis can now use the same abilities as Mario, Luigi, Blue Toad, and Yellow Toad, as they can use power-ups like the Super Acorn and Fire Flower. If the Miis are selected as either P1, P2, P3, or P4, each will be colored with the overalls of Mario, Luigi, Wario, and a coloration similar to Luigi's blue alternate costume from the Super Smash Bros. series. Randomly generated Miis appear in various places of the background in Boost Rush Mode. Miis have the ability to play with or without a hat and female ones wear shorter overalls, revealing black socks underneath. In this game, the Miis reuse their voices from Mario Kart 7.
In New Super Luigi U, the player's Mii can also be used if a trick is done on the Flying Squirrel Ovation level in Superstar Road which has the player holding down  on the / or  on the  while selecting the level (if this trick is used on a different level in the game, the player plays as Nabbit instead).
Miis were also able to post comments online about a level they had played through Miiverse before its shutdown on November 7, 2017.

Miis return in Super Mario 3D World. Here, they are referred to as Ghost Miis, and serve as representatives of people who send messages and ghost data through Miiverse. The player can spot them standing around on the world map, where their messages pop up when Mario and co. get close. Players can also opt to send out ghost data on completed levels, and try to beat the time records on other people's ghost data as well. The player can race up to three Miis at once, in an attempt to beat their record. In the game, the Miis appear in Sprixie Princess costumes corresponding to their favorite color, and are shown to mimic the exact movement of the person using the Mii (using Luigi's Scuttle, running on all fours like the Cat Suit, etc.). Miis also have voices in the game while doing a type of move, once again based on their gender and favorite color combination. Occasionally, a Mii will have a present behind it that, when opened, will either contain coins or a power-up. However, as of November 7, 2017, Miiverse is discontinued and Ghost Miis no longer appear in the game.
Ghost Miis are the only characters in Super Mario 3D World who do not return in its Nintendo Switch port Super Mario 3D World + Bowser's Fury.

In Super Mario Maker 2, the player's Mii appears as part of their Maker profile. The player can dress their Mii up with various Super Mario-themed hats and outfits obtained by clearing certain objectives in the game.

In Mario Golf: World Tour, the Castle Club is a game mode where players play as their Mii and compete in tournaments and various other challenges. Like in Mario Tennis Open, player can customize their Miis with various clothing and clubs to alter their stats. The Miis in this game reuse the voices from Mario Kart Wii. In its post-hole animations, the player's Mii is joined by six others that wear the player's chosen color. Many more also appear in the tournament awarding ceremony wearing regular clothes, but the only Miis that wear costumes or clothing from the boutique are the player's, and the top three finishers.

In Mario Golf: Super Rush, Miis appear as playable characters. Their Special Shot is Power Stinger and their Special Dash is Power Dash. In Golf Adventure, the player can improve their Mii's stats by earning experience points in practices and matches.

Miis are the only playable characters in the Super Smash Bros. series represented with the Super Smash Bros. emblem and the only fighters in the series not to be fought in All-Star Mode.

Miis (named Mii Fighters) were confirmed to be playable fighters in Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS and Super Smash Bros. for Wii U at Nintendo's E3 2014 event. They represent the Super Smash Bros. series in their emblem, making them the first playable fighters to represent the series. When creating a Mii Fighter, the player can select it to have one of three different classes: Mii Brawlers, Mii Gunners, and Mii Swordfighters. Brawlers specialize in fighting melee style, while Swordfighters and Gunners utilize a sword and a gun in their movesets, respectively. Each class can select four out of twelve special moves, making up a total of thirty-six special moves. When playing online, Miis can only be used when playing in With Friends mode.
When customizing a Mii, the player is able to equip it with custom outfits and headgear, with more available to be purchased as DLC. In terms of equipment, all Miis can use the Jacket and Boots equipment; Mii Brawler can use the Gloves; Mii Swordfighter can use the Sword; Mii Gunner can use the Arm Cannon.
The Multi-Man team in this game is also composed of Miis, called the Fighting Mii Team, replacing the Fighting Alloy Team from Super Smash Bros. Brawl. Miis are loaded from those saved on the console and given a random class of Mii Fighter. These Miis are dressed full black, and cannot use shields, special moves, and items. They also cannot grab ledges, but will use a Footstool Jump on other Miis to recover. The Fighting Mii Team is also encountered in Classic mode, where they act as the penultimate boss, being fought directly before the fight with Master Hand. In both Classic mode and Multi-Man Smash, the number of Miis present and how strong they are depends on the difficulty. Usually, the Miis are incredibly lightweight, being sent flying just from a moderately strong attack. However, in Cruel Smash, the Miis are resilient and work better as a team. The Fighting Mii Team also appears as one of the final challenges in Smash Run. In this challenge, the participants have to defeat as many Miis as possible within a one minute time limit. During this challenge, Metal and Giant Metal variants of the player's character can appear to aid the Fighting Mii Team.
In Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS, regular Miis also appear in the Tomodachi Life stage, also randomly loaded from the system.
At E3 2014, Masahiro Sakurai explained that Miis were considered to be included as playable characters in Super Smash Bros. Brawl, but they were ultimately not included as Sakurai felt that it did not seem right at the time for Miis to be punching and kicking. The Miis were also excluded due to online bullying and Sakurai thought that the Miis had a lack of character to themselves and would not be interesting enough characters.

Mii Fighters return in Super Smash Bros. Ultimate. Their proportions have been altered so that they have smaller heads, and their default clothing have been altered as well. Additionally, the Mii Fighters are unique in the sense that they are the only characters to retain custom specials. Though Mii Fighters still have customizable outfits, their body proportions cannot be adjusted in-game; Mii Brawlers have set weights of 94 units, Mii Swordfighters have set weights of 100 units, and Mii Gunners have set weights of 104 units.
Along with being able to create a custom Mii Fighter, the default ones representing each type can be unlocked after rescuing them in the World of Light. When a Mii Fighter type has been rescued, players will also gain access to using their own custom Mii Fighters in the World of Light.
The Fighting Mii Team reappears as the main opponents of Mob Smash (a mode replacing the similar Multi-Man mode from previous games), having the same role and function as before.

Miis also appear in games such as Donkey Kong Barrel Blast, New Play Control! Donkey Kong Jungle Beat, and Mario Strikers Charged to represent the player, similar to an avatar. In Super Mario Galaxy (though not in the Nvidia Shield and Super Mario 3D All-Stars ports) and its sequel, players can personalize their files with Miis. This has also been done with other non-Super Mario related games. In Super Smash Bros. Brawl, players can use their Mii on Wi-Fi to represent themselves. In Mario vs. Donkey Kong: Tipping Stars, Miis were likewise used to represent users with a profile, which allowed them to post levels in the Community mode, although this is no longer possible due to the discontinuation of Miiverse.
Miis appear along with Mario, Luigi, Blue Toad, and Yellow Toad in the Wii U experience game New Super Mario Bros. Mii. If the Miis are selected as either P1, P2, P3, or P4, each will be colored with the overalls of Mario, Luigi, Wario, and Mario's colors from Mario Bros., respectively, just like New Super Mario Bros. U.
In Super Nintendo World, Mii Racing Suits in the styles of Mario, Luigi, Peach, Yoshi, and Toad are displayed against a wall in the queue of Mario Kart: Bowser's Challenge. Additionally, they appear in the queue video explaining the ride and the use of the AR visor.
In The Super Mario Bros. Movie, the profile picture on Luigi's phone when the Brooklyn couple is calling resembles a Mii.

One of the channels on the Wii is the Check Mii Out Channel (or the Mii Contest Channel in the PAL region), where Nintendo holds contests in which participants must create a Mii that looks most like a certain person or character. Some of the contests have been Super Mario-related:

In Mario Kart Wii, male Miis are voiced by Fumihiro Okabayashi, Takuya Sato, Katsuhiro Harasawa, and Tomoyuki Higuchi while female Miis are voiced by Tomo Adachi, Ayumi Nagao, Yuko Kaida, and Hitomi Hirose. Their portrayals were reused in Mario Golf: World Tour, Mario Kart 8, and Mario Golf: Super Rush, though the latter two games give them higher-pitched voices. Higuchi and Hirose also voice the male and female Miis in Mario Tennis Open.
In Mario Sports Mix, male and female Miis are voiced by Greg Irwin and Bianca Allen (who also respectively voiced Black Mage and White Mage).
In Super Smash Bros. Ultimate, players can choose between 12 different voice options to set for their Mii Fighters, each of which can be played at three pitches: low, medium, and high. Mii Fighters have 36 selectable voices in total, and all but three types are voiced by voice actors who simultaneously voiced other characters:

Small Mii

Medium Mii

Large Mii

Mii Brawler

Mii Swordfighter

Mii Gunner