Mines (either capitalized or lowercase) are obstacles introduced in Super Mario World. They are Spike Ball-like bombs that are not always shown to be explosive, despite their name.

Mines, also referred to as Floating Mines, are obstacles in Super Mario World. They appear as spiked balls with a wooden texture and pulsate with spikes. Mines are first encountered in Yoshi's Island 4, where they drift in the water, following the current continuously. Yoshi can step on a mine without taking harm and eat them. A Mine can be defeated from the effects of a Super Star. Mines are later encountered in Sunken Ghost Ship, where many are in free fall, and slowly rise to the surface when landing in the water.
Smaller, multicolored, and more balloon-like versions of Floating Mines attached to poles resembling a Midway Gate were planned to appear in the game.

Mines, simply called bombs in Super Mario 64 and also called spiked orbs in the Player's Guide and Super Mario 64 DS, play a vital role in defeating Bowser. In the final arenas of Bowser in the Dark World, Bowser in the Fire Sea, and Bowser in the Sky, where the bombs surround the arena, Mario, Luigi, or Wario has to throw Bowser into one of the bombs to defeat him (three in Bowser in the Sky). If the player jumps into one of the bombs, it will blow up and they will take two wedges of damage.
There was also going to be a smaller, water-based variant, but it was cut out from the final.

Mines are obstacles in the PC and SNES versions of Mario's Time Machine. They appear while Mario is surfing around only. In the PC version, hitting a mine causes Mario to lose only one mushroom, whereas in the SNES version, hitting a mine causes Mario to lose all of them. In both cases, the mines are not explosive.

Mines are obstacles in Wario Land: Super Mario Land 3. They can be found on the ground, where they can be picked up, or floating in underwater, where they can interrupt a Body Slam. If interacted with, they proceed to flash and then soon explode, causing damage. The Pecan enemy can also spit mines that sink and automatically explode.

Mines are obstacles in the minigame Deep Sea Salvage in Mario Party 2. They are thrown in an arc among Coins and coin bags by a Hammer Bro on a ship. Like the other objects, they sink directly downward when they land in the water. They explode if they hit a player, stunning them for several seconds. Unlike the other objects, they also explode if they touch the ground on either side of the screen.

Mines (referred to as bombs) are obstacles in the minigame Cheep Cheep Chase in Mario Party 3 and Mario Party Superstars. The characters can avoid mines by diving under them.

Floating mines are obstacles in the remake of Donkey Kong Country 3. They appear during the "Disarm" mission of Funky's Rentals, where the goal is to take four mines from a Kremling, each one at a time, and have them detonate in a designated space.

Mines are obstacles in DK Jungle Climber. They have a similar role as floating spikes from DK: King of Swing. Mines are seen floating in the air and explode upon contact.

Several types of mines appear in Luigi's Mansion 3. In the Boilerworks, mines remain still and flash red when approached, exploding after a seconds. In the ScreamPark minigame Coin Floating, two types of mines appear. There is a normal type resembling a Spike Ball, and a homing type that acts as a bomb. The later moves toward the nearest player, and when close, it flashes red and eventually blows up. In the ScreamPark minigame Floaty Frenzy, mines are periodically dropped onto the field to block certain ways, and explode by themselves after some time passes or if touched by a player. They can pop Luigi's inflatable duck boat and make him drown, losing 20 HP.