Mona is a major human character from the WarioWare series. Along with being one of Wario's original employees at WarioWare, Inc., she is also shown working part-time in many establishments of Diamond City, most owned by Joe, while competing with the Dinosaurs, a rival group. She also has a group of pets. Since her introduction in WarioWare, Inc.: Mega Microgame$!, Mona has appeared in all installments of the WarioWare series except WarioWare: D.I.Y. Showcase.

As revealed by Mona's diary on the official Japanese website for WarioWare, Inc.: Mega Microgame$!, Mona is the daughter of an artist (her father) and a supermodel (her mother). They are always busy, traveling around the world for overseas jobs, and do not see her often. In a comment by Mona in the blog of the Japanese website for WarioWare: Smooth Moves, it is written that she empathizes with Ashley since Ashley often feels lonely and thinks about her parents, while Mona herself rarely sees her busy parents.

Mona is first seen in the intro of WarioWare, Inc.: Mega Microgame$!, where Wario calls her to join WarioWare, Inc. and to produce microgames for his upcoming game. As with Wario's other friends in Diamond City, Mona agrees.

At the beginning of Mona's own story, she is on her red scooter, driving through various landscapes. At one point, Mona must stop before a large group of children passing the street. While she is waiting, she is shocked to realize that it is already 7:55 and she is almost late for her job at the Gelateria. After the children pass through the street, Mona continues to hurry. As she drives past a Diamond Police car, the police notice her speeding and chase her. To get rid of the police, Mona turns to her animals for help.

Eventually, Mona escapes from the Diamond Police and reaches the Gelateria. She runs inside and inserts her staff card at 7:59, only two seconds from 8:00 a.m. Her employer, Gelato Joe, is very happy that she has arrived on time, and celebrates with confetti. Mona then wears her uniform and starts serving gelato. As the scene irises out, she looks at the player and winks. The music that plays when Mona clocks in at the Gelateria is based on the music that can be heard while visiting the shop owner's item shop in Wario Land 4. Mona's theme in WarioWare, Inc.: Mega Party Game$! is also based on the same music track.
Mona also makes an appearance in the ending of the game, where Wario represents his employees in the WarioWare headquarters. Wario, however, is unwilling to share the company's profits with any of his employees. Mona calls Wario a "greedy punk", and she is the only one of his employees to chase after Wario when he attempts to flee, but she is unable to stop him from escaping.
For WarioWare, Inc.: Mega Microgame$!, Mona creates Strange microgames that mostly involve performing everyday tasks in bizarre ways, such as brushing teeth or plugging a finger into a nose. During the intermission between the microgames in her set, one of her outfits depicts her wearing Wario's standard plumber attire from the Super Mario franchise.
In the two-player minigame VS Dong Dong, Mona is controlled by Player 1 with , while her opponent is Dribble. A single-player minigame, Paper Plane, features Mona as one of the characters looking through a window and telling the player how long the plane has flown for.

In WarioWare, Inc.: Mega Party Game$!, Mona now works as a waitress at Restaurant Sora Sora. In the ending movie "Shiner Diner", which can be seen after beating the single-player mode, she drives her scooter to her workplace and hits a soccer ball while driving. The ball flies into the headquarters of WarioWare, Inc. and hits Wario's television set, making it display Mona's Elephant. This movie shows Mona as a 3D model, making her the first major WarioWare character to be depicted as such. Some time later, Mona greets Wario and the WarioWare employees at the restaurant while wearing her uniform.
WarioWare, Inc.: Mega Party Game$! features Mona's Strange microgames from WarioWare, Inc.: Mega Microgame$!, and in the multiplayer games, she is one of the ten playable characters. Her helmet, dress, coat, and boots are tinted in the player's color. Her multiplayer mode minigame is Listen to the Doctor!, where a player is instructed to do microgames while performing other actions as per the doctor's instructions, and the other players clap based on how well the player has done.

In the intro of WarioWare: Twisted!, Mona enters Dr. Crygor's lab with 9-Volt after Wario's Game Boy Advance is converted by the Gravitator into many smaller systems controlled by tilting. Mona and 9-Volt try the system and are thrilled by it, giving Wario the idea to make a new WarioWare game involving this gameplay.
In her story, she is employed at Mona Pizza, a pizzeria owned by Pizza Joe. Mona Pizza is a competitor to Pizza Dinosaur, a huge restaurant chain. She receives a call from the Pizza Patrons for three Mona Specials. After making the pizzas, she gets on her scooter to deliver them. During her drive, she is attacked by the Dinosaurs because they had received a call meant for Mona Pizza, angering them. She tries to speed up, but the Dinosaurs catch up. Pizza Joe then flies in to put Mona's Pets on her head. They attack the Dinosaurs while she drives. Her Chimp flips over the Dinosaur's vehicle with a banana peel, letting her escape and reach the Pizza Patrons' house. Afterwards, she drives to Club Sugar and dances there.
Mona's microgames in WarioWare: Twisted! involve a particular style of gameplay rather than a specific visual theme, which is continued for the next games in the series until WarioWare: D.I.Y. In this game, her set of microgames is called Mini Spin and requires small spins and precise movement.
Mona also appears in WarioWare Twisted Marble Maze Game, where she can be seen on the Round 2 board.

In WarioWare: Touched!, Mona becomes the bassist of a rock band called "Mona and The Hot Slices" composed of herself and Art and Deco. While Mona plays the bass guitar, Deco raps and Art plays the banjo.
On Ear Candy, a television show of the channel DBS, Ken the VJ reveals that Mona and her bandmates are the top music artists of the week, displacing the pop singer Vanessa. He also announces that Mona has a gig at the Hawt House. After watching this, a furious Vanessa vows to keep Mona and her friends from reaching the Hawt House.
Meanwhile, Mona, Art, and Deco are doing their last rehearsal at Mona Pizza before their gig. When they are done, Mona drives her scooter toward the Hawt House while Art and Deco follow her in a van. On the way, Vanessa and the two members of the Dinosaurs appear on motorcycles to slow the trio. Vanessa drives toward the Hawt House while the Dinosaurs drive a bird-like vehicle and fly directly over the trio, grabbing Art. The Yum Yums and Pizza Joe fly in on small aircrafts and attempt to help Mona, but they get knocked away by the Dinosaurs' vehicle. The last helpers are 4.1 and 4.2, who fly in a spherical flying vehicle and shoot soccer balls at the Dinosaur's machine. During gameplay, Mona laughs if the player successfully beats a microgame and is shocked when the player fails a microgame.
4.1 and 4.2 eventually fail to stop the Dinosaurs, so Deco activates an ejection seat of the van to hit the Dinosaurs' vehicle. This makes the vehicle drop Art and fall away, allowing the trio to hurry to the Hawt House. They make it on time and begin to perform. Suddenly, Mona realizes that she has pizzas to deliver and immediately leaves the Hawt House. Vanessa tries to take her place by disguising as her, but she fails to please the audience. Mona later returns to the Hawt House and performs with her band and Vanessa.
In this game, Mona's set of microgames is called Cute Cuts and involves slicing with the Stylus. For example, in the Steel Chef microgame, the player must slice flying food two or more times to win. Similarly to WarioWare, Inc.: Mega Microgame$!, during the intermission between Mona's microgames in this game, she can be seen wearing Wario's biker outfit from the WarioWare series with a few minor alterations, such as her pink skirt replacing Wario's pink pants, and her lack of a helmet.

In WarioWare: Smooth Moves, Mona works as a cheerleader. She drives her scooter to the football stadium of Diamond City, but she is late again, so she drives directly into the stadium. There, she is the leader of the Monettes for the Diamond City Roughs, who is playing against Team Dinosaur. Boy, one of the players of the Diamond City Roughs, has fallen in love with Mona.
When only a few seconds of the game are left, Boy catches the football and has to pass three members of Team Dinosaur. The thought of Mona gives him the motivation to hit the Dinosaurs away and make the winning touchdown. After the game, Boy wants to confess his love to Mona, but she leaves on her scooter before he can finish. He instead confesses to one of the Monettes, shocking her.
Mona appears in the story of Young Cricket & Master Mantis, where she serves dumplings along with Joe on Park Street. Mona's Pets, Art, and Deco also help. Mona's Bear also makes his first appearance here. Mona is the author of the last town bulletin board message, which is obtained after collecting all Pose Cards.
Mona works as an editor of Wario's one-shot newspaper "The Weekly Wario" found in the game's instruction booklet, where she describes herself as a Form Baton expert.
In WarioWare: Smooth Moves, Mona's set of microgames involves the forms The Remote Control, The Handlebar, and The Umbrella.

The Japanese WarioWare: Smooth Moves website features a blog section for the WarioWare developers. In her blog entry, Mona describes various establishments of Diamond City and explains that she frequently changes jobs because her boss himself frequently changes business.
On Ashley's blog entry, Red explains that Ashley feels lonely as she misses her parents, who live in her distant hometown. In the comments, Mona states that she empathizes with Ashley, as she also rarely sees her parents, and offers Ashley to come see her if she ever needs comforting. Ashley simply responds "Everyone... I hate you."

In WarioWare: Snapped!, Mona runs the newly-opened Wario Park along with Wario, Jimmy T., and Kat & Ana. In Mona's five microgames in WarioWare: Snapped!, the player has to line up with objects on the screen. She adds stylish decorations to the photos taken of the player after the end of her stage.

In WarioWare: D.I.Y., Mona and Joe explore an ancient temple, which they find after a trip through the jungle. Mona, holding a microphone, reports on their adventure on the show Mona: Temple Explorer!. The theme of Mona's microgame set is Strange, like in WarioWare, Inc.: Mega Microgame$!.
Mona, along with Jimmy T., 9-Volt, Orbulon, and Ashley, apparently leave WarioWare Inc. to work for Diamond Software in this game. Various residents of Diamond City on the D.I.Y. Forums suggest that this is because Wario refused to do any work at his company. Later games such as Game & Wario, however, show that she and everyone else have returned to working at Wario's company.

In Game & Wario, Mona works at the Diamond City Times as a photojournalist, taking pictures of criminals at the scene of a crime. She is featured in the minigame Shutter, which involves taking images of hidden criminals from buildings and streets.
Mona is featured as the subject of several Cluck-A-Pop capsules, collectively named Mona Superscoop. These capsules feature Mona sharing various information about life in Diamond City and its residents. She is also featured in the "Beauty Magazine" capsule. In it, Mona takes a photo of the player's face, which then has various comical filters applied.
Mona, along with most other characters in the game, also appears in the Bowling minigame depicted on a bowling pin.
As with the other WarioWare characters, Mona makes an appearance in Miiverse Sketch Masterpiece Collection, a series of video showcasing pictures of often questionable quality made in the game's Miiverse Sketch mode. Mona is the host of the twelfth video, themed after drawings of Tutankhamun.

Mona makes a reappearance in WarioWare Gold, where she hosts the second set of the Mash League. 
Mona's story begins with her going to Joe's Clothes to get a dress for a party. After Joe asks her what her perfect dress would be, she decides she needs a dress "that's extravagant like a parfait, cute like a plushie, and super cool like Wario" as she considers him to be a "fashion icon". She then tries out the dresses in the store as Joe watches on. Once she finishes, Mona packs up her new dress and asks Joe to come to her party, to which Joe sheepishly accepts. However, Mona realizes she is late to her own party, and takes off on her motorcycle, hastily leaving Joe behind in his store.
During the Dancing Team set of the Ultra League, Mona arrives with Dr. Crygor, Jimmy T, Mike, Fronk, Young Cricket, Master Mantis, Kat & Ana, and Penny, where they assist Manager Joe in filling up his new nightclub, Club Joe. She is seen dancing with the rest of the group and notices that they are missing Wario.
Mona can be seen with a few of her previous game outfits in her character trailer for this game, as well as her dumpling stand uniform in Young Cricket & Master Mantis's character trailer.

Mona appears in WarioWare: Get It Together! In the game's story mode, she appears in the opening cutscene, working at a computer. When Wario announces the completion of his new game, she becomes eager to see the finished product, commending the WarioWare, Inc. crew's hard work. Along with the rest of the employees, she gets sucked in the game world due to Wario's actions.
Her stage is the That's Life stage, which is available after Wario's Intro Games stage is completed. In the pre-stage cutscene, Wario, Young Cricket, and 18-Volt wander in front of Mona's stage entrance, and immediately take notice of Mona riding past them, stating that she is somehow unable to stop her scooter from moving. She takes notice of her stage, and complains about the mess the game bugs have made on it. She proceeds to deal with the mess along with Wario and company.
In her story, Mona leaves her house on an errand, leaving her Elephant, Pig, and Monkey, alone. When she returns, she comes back to find that her animals have made a big mess around the house. Using her boomerang, she orders her animals to clean up after their mess. The next day, Mona goes out again. Despite previously disciplining her animals, Mona comes back home to find that they have made a mess again, much to her dismay. After her stage is cleared, Mona joins the gang, satisfied that her stage is all tidied up.
After beating Anything Goes, Mona returns to the real world alongside most of the other WarioWare Inc. employees. She wonders where the game bugs came from, and when Wario reveals that they were caused by his poor programming, everyone chases after him. However, they soon remember other people were left behind in the game world, and immediately return to rescue them.
As a playable character, Mona flies around on her scooter with . Unlike other flying characters, she is unable to stop and ricochets off solid surfaces. Pressing  makes her throw a boomerang, which stops her movement. The boomerang is controlled the same way, unable to stop and bouncing off surfaces. If the boomerang is returned to Mona, she catches it and the player regains control of her. The boomerang can also be recalled to Mona by pressing  again. Because of the versatility of the boomerang, being able to collect items and defeat enemies far away from Mona, her characteristics are more strategic, allowing her to safely complete microgames with hazards that may pose a danger to her position (e.g. Missing Remote and New Super Mario Bros. U, two of four microgames that are considered a good fit). The boomerang is also good at applying constant pressure to soft objects (e.g. Don't Waste the Paste and So Kneady, the other two good-fit games). However, Mona is not without her disadvantages: she is inefficient in applying constant pressure to solid objects with her boomerang (e.g. Crash Course, one of two microgames that deem her a bad fit). The aforementioned inability to stop also requires the player to control her with precision (e.g. Keeping Track, the other bad-fit game). Overall, Mona has 92 games that deem her an average fit, 47 games deeming her a below-average fit, and 67 games deeming her an above-average fit.

Mona appears in WarioWare: Move It! where she, along with the rest of the WarioWare cast, join Wario on his vacation to Caresaway Island. In her stage, "Mermaid Meet and Greet", while Lulu is swimming with a fish, Mona is seen reading a magazine, and discovers the possible existence of mermaids underwater. Mona then calls Joe on her phone, who picks her up on a plane. Aboard the plane, she prepares scuba-diving gear and jumps into the water to find the mermaids. After a while, Mona sees what appears to be a mermaid in front of her. However, it turns out that it was Lulu getting eaten by a fish. While Mona swims ahead to save Lulu, she was unaware that actual mermaids were watching her, giggling as they swim away.

Mona returns in Remix 1, "Not-So-Relaxing Rapids", where she is seen along with Red displeased with Mike's singing. When the beach house is accidentally detached into the nearby rapids, she is seen panicking when the house falls down the waterfall and launches everyone out of the house. The gang lands safely on top of a tour bus, delighting everyone. After the stage is cleared, everyone exits the tour bus and find a statue of King Caresaway the First. The group looks in astonishment, but quickly changes to shock and worry when their detached beach house falls and crushes the statue.
Mona, along with the rest of the WarioWare cast appear in the final stage, "Lava at First Sight", where they all dance to defeat Volcano Wario. After Wario is launched from the volcano, the cast enjoys their vacation, while Wario is stuck inside a temple.
Mona appears as a playable character in the minigame Dirty Job. She wields water guns named Mona Soakers, where she cleans dirty kitchen utensils and dishes by spraying them with water.

In Wario World, an icon of Mona can be found in Treasure Square. It is used to represent a demo of WarioWare, Inc.: Mega Microgame$! consisting of Munch a Bunch, Veggie Might, Lickety-Split, Manic Mechanic, Space Fighter, Hover for Cover, Space Escape.

In the Made in Wario manga published by Comic BomBom, Mona arrives at the WarioWare, Inc. headquarters to present her game, Kinisawaru Made in Wario, to Luigi. The game makes scornful remarks towards Luigi and curses him when he loses, causing him to slump to the ground crying.
At the end of the manga, Mona, Dr. Crygor, and Dribble & Spitz witness Wario, Luigi, and Yoshi as they are ejected from the ride at Wario's rollercoaster park, Sakebu Made in Wario, and crash into the goal sign. This causes Mona to celebrate as she claims that Sakebu Made in Wario would be a success.

Mona stars in the WarioWare: Touched! gag manga strip Waiwai! Wario. The story starts with Mona finding Wario asleep, which horrifies her, as he had promised to take Mona to her live concert. She wakes up Wario, who keeps making excuses as to why he cannot go. Mona summons the other WarioWare employees to wake Wario up, almost succeeding in getting him to keep his promise after Ashley wakes him up by stabbing him with a voodoo doll. However, when Mona points out there is heavy rain outside, Wario immediately goes back to sleep, causing both of them to be late to the concert.

Mona makes several minor appearances throughout the Super Smash Bros. series. In Super Smash Bros. Brawl, Mona has two stickers that can be equipped in The Subspace Emissary; one increases indirect special attacks by eight, and the other increases slash resistance by four. Additionally, one of the names that can be gotten from pressing the "RANDOM NAME" button is "MONA". In Super Smash Bros. for Wii U, Mona's appearance from Game & Wario is depicted as a WarioWare series trophy, which can be purchased from the Trophy Shop. In Super Smash Bros. Ultimate, Mona appears as an Ace-class support spirit, which increases damage done by down special moves when equipped on a fighter. Her spirit can only be summoned from the cores of the Ayumi Tachibana and Ouendan Cheerleaders spirits.

Mona makes a cameo as a background sign in Paper Airplane Chase, appearing after the player reaches 90 points in Endless Mode. Her appearance is based on her WarioWare: Smooth Moves design.

Mona makes several appearances in the "Wario... Where?" challenge set of Rhythm Heaven Megamix (inspired by the WarioWare installments). She first appears in Dr. Crygor's version of Freeze Frame, where she is part of the crowd that blocks the player's view of the background near the end of the minigame. Her scooter is also seen in Kat & Ana's version of Catchy Tune 2.
Mona later appears in the final game of the set, Ringside. The Wario... Where? version features The Reporter dressed as Mona interviewing The Wrestler (disguised as Wario-Man). Mona herself appears next to the building in the game's intro and outro.

From September 17 to September 21, Tetris 99 ran the 24th Maximus Cup which featured a WarioWare: Get It Together! theme, where Mona is represented by the "L" tetromino.

Mona is a teenage girl attending high school. She has fair skin and long thick orange hair, which appears to be shorter in Game & Wario. Mona generally has two bangs framing her face, although, in later appearances, a third one was added. In the majority of her appearances, Mona has blue eyes with orange eyelashes. In Game & Wario, however, she has solid black eyes. She is also seen wearing some form of headgear in almost every one of her appearances. 
Unlike most characters, Mona wears a different outfit in every one of her appearances. Her general design appears to resemble biker gear, consisting of a white mink fur coat, a red crop top, a matching mini-skirt held up by a brown belt with a blue buckle, red boots and small white earrings. When working, she wears more formal attire. In WarioWare: Twisted! (in which she works as a pizza delivery girl), she wears a yellow tank top, a blue and yellow baseball cap, a blue skirt, yellow socks, and blue rollerskates. An alternate version of her artwork in WarioWare: Twisted! depicts her wearing a similar outfit, but all traces of blue and yellow in her outfit are replaced with red and white accents. In WarioWare: Touched!, Mona (depicted as a bass guitar player) wears a red dress, gloves of the same color, and a large yellow and red striped hat with sewn eyes. The bass she plays is yellow and green with heart and star motifs.
WarioWare: Smooth Moves depicts Mona as slightly taller and older with even more of a slim build than before, wearing formal cheerleading attire. She also ties her hair back into a mini-ponytail while wearing this outfit. Within the same game, she is also seen wearing a red qipao and has her hair tied back in a larger ponytail during the intro and ending cutscenes for Young Cricket & Master Mantis' story. She also appears to be wearing a light lip gloss, as seen in her official artwork for the aforementioned game. This more mature look seems to have been maintained for Mona's design in every game starting with WarioWare: Smooth Moves, with the exception of Game & Wario. In WarioWare: Snapped!, being a park employee, Mona wears a white and green uniform with a headphone and a small hat. Mona takes up the job of an explorer in WarioWare: D.I.Y., where her outfit is mostly pink and she wears lip gloss, similar to her appearance in WarioWare: Smooth Moves. In Game & Wario, Mona is a photographer. Due to the art style change in the game, Mona now has a more circular face shape, shorter hair, and appears slightly younger than her previous appearances. This design is later used in Rhythm Heaven Megamix. In her opening cutscene, she is shown wearing makeup.
With the new art style introduced in WarioWare Gold, Mona's appearance in the aforementioned game appears to combine elements of her general design (long orange hair, blue eyes, slim build, tall frame) with the more simplistic design used in Game & Wario (circular face shape, black eyelashes, slightly younger look overall). In this game, Mona wears a less voluminous version of her usual fur coat; instead of her usual red crop top and mini-skirt, she wears a red sleeveless minidress. 
In WarioWare Move It!, she wears a sleeveless white sundress with a red ribbon around the waist, matching platform strap heels with brown soles, and a tan sunhat with a white hatband and a tropical white and yellow flower. When going swimming during her stage, she dons a red short sleeve wetsuit along with scuba gear, and wears her hair in a high ponytail.

Mona has a tomboyish personality, as she is said to be spunky, and she is often seen driving a motor scooter. Her aspiration is to become a famous treasure hunter, and she admires Wario for his exploits. Other interests of hers include music and fashion; she plays bass in a band, and considers Wario to be her "fashion icon". Mona is versatile and always willing to help, as seen by the variety of jobs she undertakes with her employer Joe. She is highly dedicated to her roles at work and school, and is willing to evade law enforcement in order to reach her commitments on time. However, Mona is also willing to speak out aggressively if her employer is treating her unfairly, and she often complains if she is not paid or her work is undervalued. Although she likes Wario and even looks up to him, she readily calls him out for his greed and refusal to share the profits made by his company; in WarioWare, Inc.: Mega Microgame$!, she is the only one of his employees to directly pursue him as he makes his escape.
Mona appears to be popular among her peers, and she seems to have many friends, human and animal alike. Despite this, according to the series' official websites, she often feels lonely because her mother is a supermodel who is rarely at home, while her father is a reclusive artist. She wishes she had an older sister, as she is an only child; she is empathetic toward Ashley, who also misses her parents.

As seen in many games in the WarioWare series, Mona owns a variety of small animals called Mona's Pets that often help her against her pursuers. Each of Mona's Pets wears a shirt with a number on it.

Hey, you're a new face around here! Well, I'm Mona! I scoop gelato at the gelataria-when I'm not at school or making games, that is. So anyway, you should know that fortune-hunter Wario has inspired many of my strange games! He's always one degree ahead of cool, and he's even let me tag along with him on some of his money-grubbing adventures!

"HEY, I'M BACK! I may work as a pizza-delivery diva by day, but I also play the bass in the hardest-rockin' band in the city – Mona and the Hot Slices! Our first gig is today at the famous Hawt House! Come check us out... we're going to, like, totally ROCK!"
"My Cute Cuts are easy to play: just make quick slices across the screen. Simple, right? It's a lot like jamming on a bass!"

"HEY, I'M BACK! I may work as a pizza-delivery diva by day, but I also play the bass in the hardest-rockin' band in the city – Mona and THE PORK LOINS!1 Our first gig is today at the famous HAWT HOUSE! Come check us out... we're going to, like, totally ROCK!"
"My CUTE CUTS are easy to play: just make quick slices across the screen. Simple, right? It's a lot like jamming on a bass!"
1 - The British English text incorrectly names Mona's band as the Pork Loins, a different band, instead of the Hot Slices.

Isn't Wario just the dreamiest? That schnoz! That 'stache!
"Hello! It's me, Mona! Between my job and school stuff, life is a blur sometimes—but you won't catch ME slowing down!"

During the history of the WarioWare game series' installments overall, Mona has been portrayed by the following voice actresses: