The Monster tires are a set of tires in the Mario Kart series. They are notable for their large size, and most karts fitted with these tires will have their suspension and axles lifted. It is named after and based on the Monster vehicle that Mario and Luigi drive in Famicom Grand Prix II: 3D Hot Rally. 

In Mario Kart 7, the design of the Monster tires is almost exactly the same as the tires on the Tiny Titan, from Mario Kart Wii. They offer good speed, weight, and off-road, while hindering the acceleration and handling stats. In fact, the Monster tires offer the highest weight boost, the lowest acceleration boost, and are tied with the Red Monster tires for the best off-road boost. They are also tied with the Red Monster tires, the Slick tires, and the Gold Tires, for the lowest handling boost.
In terms of their hidden stats, the Monster tires excel poorly while underwater, and have one of the lowest stability statistics in the game. Additionally, air handling is hindered, making it more difficult to steer while the glider is in use. The Monster and Red Monster are also the only tires that can drift off-road.

The Monster tires reappear in Mario Kart 8 and Mario Kart 8 Deluxe, where they look slightly different than they do in Mario Kart 7. This also applies to the stats that they alter, where they no longer boost the speed stat, while only boosting weight and traction. They still have a negative impact on acceleration and handling, however. In fact, when taking into account their hidden stats, the Monster tires have the lowest stat total of any vehicle part in the game.
The Monster tires have a variant called the Hot Monster, which shares the exact same stats as them.
All CPU-controlled heavyweights with a large body frame (excluding Link and, in Mario Kart 8 Deluxe, Rosalina) use these tires while riding the Standard Kart or Standard Bike, but Link, along with the middleweights, as well as Metal Mario, Pink Gold Peach, and the lightweight Larry and Wendy use them while riding the Standard ATV, which is also the case for all other CPU-controlled racers with large body frames. CPU Lakitu uses these tires with the Biddybuggy.
The tires seem to be a default part of the Standard ATV, as implied by the artworks.
In Mario Kart 8 Deluxe, the Monster tires have slightly different stats. They now have improved water speed, water handling, air handling and mini-turbo stats, and their traction stat has also been reduced as well.

The Monster tires return in Mario Kart Tour, under different appearances. On the Bolt Buggy, Offroader, Tanooki Kart, and Lunar Cruiser, they take their Mario Kart 8 appearance. A blue variant is used by the Pipe Buggy and Ice-blue Poltergust, a green variant is used by the Holiday King, a brown spiky variant is used by the Koopa King and Gilded King, a black spiky variant is used by the Brown Offroader and Black Dozer, a silver and red spiky variant is used by the Silver King, a purple and pink spiky variant is used by the Purple Dozer, a pink variant of the Mario Kart 8 version is used by the Pink Dozer, a snowflake patterned variant is used by the Ice Dozer, a yellow spiky variant is used by the Yellow Offroader, a yellow and black variant of the Mario Kart 8 version is used by the Firefly, a yellow and dark blue variant of the Mario Kart 8 version is used by the Tropical Truck and Camo Tanooki Kart, and a light green and orange variant of the Mario Kart 8 version is used by the Moo Moo Offroader.

Stat values are out of 6.