The Moon Kingdom is a region in Super Mario Odyssey. It is the greater location of Honeylune Ridge, and the fourteenth and final story kingdom accessed in the game. As its name suggests, it is located on the Moon; because of this, the gravity in the kingdom outdoors is much lighter than in previous kingdoms, enabling Mario to jump higher and farther and remain in the air for a longer period of time. Honeylune Ridge (a portmanteau of "honeymoon" and "lune") is the place set to hold Bowser and Princess Peach's wedding, therefore being Mario and Cappy's final destination in the main game.
After rescuing Princess Peach from Bowser, Mario and Cappy can visit the Mushroom Kingdom.

Wedding Hall
Legends tell of a moon goddess, and this wedding hall is said to have been created in her honor, though no one knows for sure. The stunning exterior contrasts beautifully with the black sky, a symbol of Honeylune Ridge. Weddings here are often open, so lucky travelers can join the party.

Lunar Life Forms
The surface of the moon is harsh, but a few creatures do live there. Take heed if tempted to study their unique shape and movement up close, as they have sharp spikes. it's probably best to observe them from a safe vantage point.
Interestingly, similar creatures can be found in the Seaside Kingdom. Did life on our planet (which began in the seas) actually originate on the moon?

Cubes of Mystery
Possessing unique metallic properties, it's hard to imagine how these cubic Moon Rocks formed naturally, but they can be found in great abundance up here. Similar rocks have also been found in various areas on the planet, and the method of their formation remains shrouded in mystery. We recommend seeking one out and pondering its mysteries up close!

Lunar Interior: Secrets
We've heard stories about extensive caverns beneath the lunar interior. There's an entrance directly into the moon rock that's easily accessed, but it sounds quite dangerous inside.
On the other hand, tales abound of thrills and mysteries waiting within, so it may be worth investigating. Be sure to take the necessary precautions before you go, though!

A View to Remember
Our world as seen from the Wedding Hall is something everyone needs to experience at least once in their life. With the planet as your witness, it's no wonder weddings are held here.

Moon Frog
This frog now lives in Honeylune Ridge. Brought to the moon by first pioneers, it's now considered a good omen for visitors. See one and you'll have a hoppy day!

Three Keys to the Kingdom

Experience the floaty feeling of lighter gravity.
Listen to the glorious bells of the Wedding Hall.
See the mysterious Moon Rocks, supposedly energy made solid.

Map

The Odyssey lands in the southeastern corner of the kingdom. Hint Toad, Uncle amiibo, and a Starshroom Crazy Cap are to the right of the landing site. Next to the Odyssey is a small crater with three Hidden Blocks and a Power Moon above it. A larger nearby crater has a Power Moon moving underground. It can be unearthed by Ground Pounding it.

Ringing-Bells Plateau is a flat, spacious piece of land in the center of the kingdom with two Rocket Flowers growing in craters as well as a Moonsnake. It is northwest of the Odyssey and south of the Quiet Wall. To the left of the plateau is a secluded platform with a treasure chest containing a Power Moon. Mario can reach the platform and the chest with a Long Jump or through use of a Rocket Flower. To the right is an elevated area with a rainbow treble clef. Touching it makes two sets of notes appear, which can be grabbed with Long Jumps. Collecting all of them in the allotted time reveals a Power Moon.

This Checkpoint Flag is in front of the entrance to the Underground Moon Caverns. Around the wall, to the right, is the Sphynx. Before Bowser has been defeated, his only question is, "Should you really be answering questions right now?" After Bowser's defeat, the Sphynx gives Mario a small set of questions as usual. Answering one question correctly opens up a doorway leading to a small hidden area containing a Power Moon in a treasure chest. To the right are Binoculars and an Astro-Lanceur orbiting a crater with six regional coins above a Hat Trampoline.

Mario arrives here after exiting the Underground Moon Caverns. Up ahead is a long stretch of carpeted road leading toward the Wedding Hall. The first time Mario crosses the path, bells can be heard ringing from the church, prompting Cappy to push ahead. Once Bowser has been defeated, a Hat Trampoline appears below Ever-After Hill, providing a shortcut.

This Checkpoint Flag is just outside of the Wedding Hall, where the final confrontation with Bowser takes place.

All bonus areas retain the kingdom's light gravity.

Enemies marked with an asterisk (*) are only found in bonus areas.

Bowser's Moon Wedding: The goal is to reach the Wedding Hall and defeat Bowser for the final time.

There are two paintings in this kingdom that are both inside the Wedding Hall. One can be unlocked after defeating Bowser, allowing to fight him again, and the other one can be unlocked after collecting all 880 Power Moons in the game (not counting the ones obtained by shopping) that leads to a harder version of the Bowser fight.

There are a total of 38 Power Moons in this kingdom. During Mario's first visit to this kingdom, he can collect fourteen Power Moons. After Mario defeats Bowser in this kingdom, twelve more Power Moons become available to collect, including one from the kingdom's Hint Art. One additional Power Moon can also be found when Mario encounters the Desert Wanderer (i.e. Tostarenan tourist) in the kingdom (after he has visited all other locations). The Moon Rock will also be available to destroy, causing eleven additional Power Moons to be accessible.

There are a total of 50 regional coins, which take the form of Star Bits.