Mudhole Marsh, also titled Swamp Level, is the twenty-first level of Donkey Kong Country 2: Diddy's Kong Quest. It is also the fifth level of Krazy Kremland. It takes place in a swamp just outside the exit of the Kremland amusement park. It is the only swamp level to not appear in Krem Quay, and the last one overall in the game. There are many gaps for Diddy Kong and Dixie Kong to cross throughout the level, either by jumping from Krockheads, lilypad platforms, barrel platforms, cattails, Flitters, or even barrels shot by Kannons. While on land, the Kongs must go across moss-covered piers, where they encounter Cat O' 9 Tails: these enemies can fling them up to collectible items and, in one instance, a Bonus Barrel.

The level begins on a grassy bridge that is held over the swamp water. Three Flitters are in this area, but a Banana Coin can be reached by bouncing on them. A water area lies just ahead, and it can be crossed using half-sunken barrels and lily pads. A hook floats in the air above the objects. Around the next portion of land is Flitters and the first Cat O' 9 Tails, which is required to obtain letter K. Another gap full of water is ahead that can be crossed using hooks suspended in midair. Click-Clacks walk along a small platform ahead of here. There is another water section after this platform that can be crossed if the Kongs jump along the lily pads and half-sunken barrels in it, with Mini-Neckys being encountered along the way. A treasure chest with a Banana Bunch is on the first lily pad. After the water area is another small platform supported over the swamp, and it has a Cat O' 9 Tails. More hooks are used to cross most of a long section of water afterward, some of which are surrounded by Zingers. After this is a Flitter that can be bounced on to avoid landing below. Lily pads and barrels must be jumped on throughout the remaining part of the water area once the heroes bounce on this Flitter. As the primates travel down the swamp with the lily pads and barrels, Mini-Neckys swoop down at them. They come up to a DK Barrel and many treasure chests on the way as well. A few Flitters are toward the end of the water section, and they must be bounced on to cross small gaps between lily pads. Following this is another bridge platform with a Cat O' 9 Tails, as well as a Bonus Barrel above it. Another water area is ahead, which can be crossed by bouncing on a Flitter to reach a lily pad. They must continue along the lily pads and the barrels in the water to progress safely. The Star Barrel is above the first half-sunken barrel in the water.
Following the Star Barrel is a single lily pad and a solid bridge platform where a Cat O' 9 Tails rests. A pair of Zingers also fly in the air above the platform, guarding a group of bananas. Continuing forward, there is another water area with more lily pads and barrels that need to be crossed, and cattails must also be used in this area to progress. A Kannon is on the first barrel, and the letter N is right in front of it. Three cattails come afterward, leading to a Krockhead that can fling them over a Zinger and onto a platform held above the water. Here, there are two Cat O' 9 Tails, along with a second Zinger near bananas and a Banana Coin. A third Zinger is at the end of the platform at the beginning of another water area. Here, the Kongs must hop along lily pads and barrels to progress. A Kannon shoots at them as they hop along the objects. They pass a DK Barrel and a kannonball on the way across as well. A barrel holding a kannon that can shoot them to a Bonus Level is after the Kannon. Another platform is also immediately after it, and three Click-Clacks march along it. An additional area of water is ahead. After the heroes bounce on a Flitter here to cross a rather large gap, they reach a vine that they can cling onto. Using more vines, lily pads, barrels, and even a Krockhead, they must hop over the gaps in the water area. After they pass the second Flitter, they reach a large gap that they can cross by bouncing on a barrel shot from a Kannon nearby. A few Flitters are ahead of here that can aid the Kongs in crossing the area. A bridge platform that supports a treasure chest, containing a Banana Bunch, is right after the Kannon enemy. A small gap of water is after it, but only a green Krockhead must be hopped on to cross it. On the other side of the water area, the primates can spot two Cat O' 9 Tails and a few Zingers who fly near the letter G. There is another water area following this. Once they hop along the first lily pad and the first barrel, they find a large gap ahead of them. A Kannon is on the other side of the gap shooting barrels, so the heroes must bounce on its projectiles to cross. A Flitter flies over a gap immediately after the Kannon that the Kongs can bounce on to reach a solid platform with another Kannon on it. The End of Level Target is at the end, its prizes including the Video Game Hero Coin, a Banana Coin, a Banana Bunch and a red Extra Life Balloon.

The following enemies appear in the following quantities:

The following items and objects appear in the following quantities:

Mudhole Marsh has two Bonus Levels, sorted by type: