Multi Moons are collectable items in Super Mario Odyssey. Each Multi Moon is three Power Moons stuck together, with metallic borders, a metal coating over the round ends, and a crown floating over the set. One is as powerful as three Power Moons. Equivalent to the Grand Stars in Super Mario Galaxy and Super Mario Galaxy 2, Multi Moons are usually collected after the player completes an objective with a boss (with the exception of Bowser). A rare few objectives without bosses conclude with a Multi Moon. Additionally, the boss rematches in the Mushroom Kingdom grant Multi Moons. Multi Moons count as three Power Moons when powering up the Odyssey, although they are counted only as one on the Power Moon List. Multi Moons have the same colors as the Power Moons in the kingdom in which they are found. 
Collecting a Multi Moon plays a cutscene; Multi Moon cutscenes are longer than the ones for both Power Moons and Power Moons tied to objectives. At the conclusion of the cutscene, Mario and Cappy fly out of the area with the Multi Moon. In most cases, it takes them back to the Odyssey. The boss rematches, however, just have the two exit the painting they were inside. This warp is normally the only way to leave after unlocking a Multi Moon. Most boss fights continue to be surrounded by the barrier, and the ones that do not have either walls or a pit so Mario cannot walk away.
Multi Moons normally cannot be recollected. Bosses do not reappear in Super Mario Odyessey, so they are unable to re-drop their Power Moons. The characters who give Multi Moons also do not repeat the relevant sequence. However, a number of post-game areas are special exceptions. Since the fights with bosses in the Mushroom Kingdom and with RoboBrood on the Dark Side can be repeated, they have to drop Multi Moons for the player to leave. The Multi Moon from Long Journey's End on the Darker Side also can be recollected. These Moons appear translucent as with normal Power Moons, but the cutscene for collecting them still plays. Following the version 1.2.0 update, the Multi Moon no longer appears on the final still of that cutscene.
The bosses Madame Broode and Knucklotec have Multi Moons in their design. Madame Broode wears hers as a pendant, and Knucklotec has one in its headwear. 

Multi Moons feature a different color depending on the kingdom in which they are found. Their color also matches the color of the kingdom's Power Moons and the pole of the kingdom's Checkpoint Flag. Like Power Moons, after they are collected, they lose their color and appear translucent the next time they are collected. Unlike the regular Power Moons in the Mushroom Kingdom, the Multi Moons in that kingdom (during the bosses' rematches) are not shaped like Power Stars. No Multi Moons are obtainable in the Moon Kingdom, so while Mario can find white Power Moons there, he can never obtain a white Multi Moon.