The Mushroom Cup (transliterated as Kinoko Cup on one occasion) is a cup that commonly appears as the first and easiest cup in the Mario Kart series, similarly to the Shell Cup since Mario Kart DS, except the Mushroom Cup has only new courses. It is represented by a Dash Mushroom. In Mario Kart 8 Deluxe, the Mushroom Cup is one of four cups to be themed around a Mushroom, alongside the Golden Dash Cup, the Propeller Cup, and the Rock Cup.

Winning the Mushroom Cup in the Mario Kart series can award the player with various bonuses, depending on the game. Additional cups unlocked are excluded from this list.

Most unlockable characters in Mario Kart 8 are unlocked at random upon winning Grand Prix cups (separate cups must be played to unlock characters), which includes the Mushroom Cup. Characters that can be unlocked include Rosalina, Metal Mario, Lakitu, Toadette, Baby Rosalina, Pink Gold Peach, Iggy Koopa, Roy Koopa, Lemmy Koopa, Larry Koopa, Wendy O. Koopa, Ludwig von Koopa, Morton Koopa Jr., and Mii. Mii is unlocked upon the eighth Grand Prix cup victory, unless an amiibo is used to unlock Mii beforehand.
In addition, the Gold Standard body can be unlocked by getting a 1 star rank or higher on all non-DLC cups (including the Mushroom Cup) on any one engine class, and the 150cc Mirror class can be unlocked by winning all 150cc cups.

The Mushroom Cup also appears in Mario Power Tennis and Mario Superstar Baseball. In Super Mario Strikers, the Mushroom Cup has four teams and three rounds. When the player places in the top three, the Flower Cup and Konga Coliseum are unlocked. A similar cup is the Super Mushroom Cup. In Mario Sports Mix, the Mushroom Cup is the first cup to be played in the tournament.
The Mushroom Cup also makes an appearance in Mario Tennis Open as the first cup of the World Open. It is played on the Mushroom Valley court, and the CPU difficulty is the easiest in the World Open. The cup is the only one to be unlocked from the start, and its matches have one set each for the starting round and semifinals, and three sets for the finals.
The Mushroom Cup reappears as the first cup in the COM Tournament mode of Mario Tennis Aces, and it uses the lowest CPU difficulty of all three cups.