Mushroom Platforms (originally known as Super Mushrooms) are giant mushrooms that appear throughout the Super Mario franchise. In most two-dimensional games after Super Mario Bros., they specifically work as Semisolid Platforms. They are most often found in large clusters in athletic and sky-themed levels. Alongside the traditional upright, static type of Mushroom Platform, variations with different appearances and properties have been introduced in several games.

Super Mushrooms appear as objects in Super Mario Bros.. They are introduced in World 4-2's Warp Zone and World 4-3, replacing the similar tree-like platforms other athletic areas of the game have. In these two areas, the green or gray secondary scenery palette that overworld areas in the game normally have is replaced by a red and orange palette for the Super Mushrooms, causing the Warp Pipes and Goal Poles in these areas to appear red and orange themselves. This detail is no longer present in the Super Mario All-Stars rendition of the game, as more palette slots are available at once. Additionally in this version, other Super Mushrooms can be seen in the background of World 4-3. Unlike later 2D games, the Super Mushrooms here are solid on all sides, meaning they cannot be jumped through. In the Super Mario Bros. Deluxe remake, they appear in World 1-3 of the Vs. and You vs. Boo modes.
They are completely absent in Super Mario Bros.: The Lost Levels, with the secondary athletic platform instead being lengthy clouds, found at the end of World 8-2 (since the Goal Pole can only be accessed via Beanstalk), in World 8-3 (which takes place in the sky), and in World A-3. However, they do appear in All Night Nippon: Super Mario Bros., where their stalks are broken up into segments. Additionally, the red and orange secondary palette used for them appears in several levels in all but the Super Mario All-Stars version.

In Super Mario World, a type of Mushroom Platform called the Piston Lift appears in Butter Bridge 1, using similar tiles to thicker, nonspecific Semisolid Platforms found elsewhere in the game.

Mushroom Platforms appear Super Mario Land 2: 6 Golden Coins under their current name. They resemble the ones from Super Mario Bros. and appear in Secret Course 5. They now have striped candy-cane like stalks. Wide, blocky Mushroom Platforms additionally appear in Secret Course 1 and Secret Course 4.

In Super Mario 64 and Super Mario 64 DS, Mushroom Platforms that are all red-capped with white spots on top and golden gills underneath appear on Tall, Tall Mountain. They are mentioned in the titles of Scary 'Shrooms, Red Coins and Blast to the Lonely Mushroom, which are the missions they are most directly involved with. Some also appear on the painting to the world.

In Super Mario Sunshine, Mushroom Platforms (simply localized as mushrooms) make up all of the ground on Pianta Village's underside, below several climbable nets. One of them contains a secret area full of Piantas called "Chucksters." In Pianta Village itself, several red ones have grown through and seem to be used as torches, as they are commonly found with a flame on top. Extinguishing it usually causes a coin to come out. One of the mushrooms in the town has a golden cap, and is where the mayor is trapped in The Goopy Inferno.

Mushroom Platforms are found throughout the athletic levels of New Super Mario Bros., being the primary platform for the level type. They first appear in World 1-3, where they come in orange or green, both with yellow spots. Additionally, purple ones can be found later in the game. While most are stationary, some sway back and forth, occasionally moving across the screen while doing so. Several specialized versions appear in the game as well, such as a pink, bouncy one known as the Mushroom Trampoline, as well as a blue type with an expanding and contracting cap, and red and yellow ones that move up or down if stood upon.

In New Super Mario Bros. Wii, Mushroom Platforms have even more color variation, and first appear in World 1-5. They also notably appear in World 8-1, despite it being a lava-based level. Like the previous game, this game features specialized versions of them, such as a purple type with a diamond patterned-cap with a screw on top and a corkscrew-like stalk. By spinning on these, the height can be adjusted. Additionally, the type with an expanding and contracting cap reappears, now pink. In many athletic levels, large spinning cubes with mushroom-like spots appear alongside Mushroom Platforms.

In New Super Mario Bros. 2, Mushroom Platforms appear again, looking and acting like they did in New Super Mario Bros. Wii, except their stem rings extend further down. They first appear in World 1-4. In World 4, their caps appear covered in snow. Mushroom Trampolines reappear, now with yellow spots, as do the rising and sinking ones, now magenta and cyan, and the pink stretching ones.

Mushroom Platforms appear with even more color variation in New Super Mario Bros. U, where they are first found in Mushroom Heights. In New Super Luigi U, they are instead first found in Piranha Heights, the level's direct replacement. In this game, the ones that move have candy cane-like stripes on their stalks. The pink stretching type also reappear in the game. The game also introduces a seesaw-like variant in the level called Seesaw Shrooms.

Mushroom Platforms appear as placeable objects in Super Mario Maker and Super Mario Maker for Nintendo 3DS, where they are given new graphics for the Super Mario Bros. 3 style. For the Super Mario World style, their tiles are repurposed from those of the large generic spotted platforms found throughout that game. Their height and length can be adjusted in the level editor. When Mushroom Platforms are placed underwater, their appearance changes to resemble coral. When they are placed in airships in all styles except for New Super Mario Bros. U, their stalks change to look mechanical, and in the Super Mario Bros. style, the cap becomes metallic. In each style, shaking them changes their color between being primarily red, yellow/white, or green.

Normal Mushroom Platforms appear in Super Mario Run, as platforms in the courses Paratroopas in Mushroom Valley, Lakitu's Revenge, and Red Block Run. Variations with a darker color scheme appear in Airship Armada.

Mushroom Platforms also appear in Super Mario Odyssey, in an 8-bit section in Bowser's Kingdom, having a more realistic look and tan and brown color. Standing on them causes them to sink into poison.

Mushroom Platforms return in Super Mario Maker 2 in all styles except for the Super Mario 3D World style. Unlike in the first game, Mushroom Platforms in the New Super Mario Bros. U airship style have a mechanical appearance.

In Super Mario Bros. Wonder, Mushroom Platforms appear in a few levels in the first half of Fungi Mines. They have a different appearance from previous 2D Mario games, with segmented stems similar to Super Mario Odyssey and wavy caps. The red ones have white circle-shaped dots and the blue ones have theirs triangle-shaped. There are also mushrooms that hang from the ceiling of some levels and two of them are diagonally set. When a Wonder Flower is touched in the level Upshroom Downshroom, by its Wonder Effect, these red and blue mushroom platforms change colors into a variety of neon shades that glow as the background darkens.

In the Yoshi's Island series, Mushroom Platforms first appear in Super Mario World 2: Yoshi's Island. In this game, Mushroom Platforms appear in cave levels, with many having much thinner stalks and caps, which curve around more than the blocky squarish ones from most Super Mario games. They come in multiple colors, such as red, blue, beige, and purple, and have a whitish center area instead of spots. Thicker ones with triangular caps also exist, and do have spots. Smaller examples of these can come in other colors, such as dark mahogany and dark pine green, while even smaller than that are limited to blue, red, beige, and purple, like the largest ones. Most of both types appear to have a slice out of the cap, but the smaller two versions of the latter type lack these.

The Mario Party minigame Mushroom Mix-Up takes place on seven hexagonal Mushroom Platforms (referred to as simply "mushrooms") of different colors (and patterns in the minigame's reappearance in Mario Party Superstars, replacing the polka dots, listed in brackets): yellow (with vertical stripes) on the top left, cyan (with three dots) on the left, blue (purple in Superstars with six small dots and one big dot) on the bottom left, pink (with zigzags) on the bottom right, green (with six dots) on the right, red (with four dots) on the top right, and black (white in Superstars with diagonal stripes) in the middle. Toad stands on a smaller one a short distance from them.
In Mario Party 6, Mushroom Platforms appear in the Towering Treetop board.
A player-controlled Mushroom Platform is the central gimmick of the Mario Party 7 1-vs.-3 minigame StratosFEAR!, with several of them also appearing in the background.
Mario Party 9 features a few Mushroom Platforms in the Toad Road board. One of the images in the minigame Pix Fix depicts an athletic level of New Super Mario Bros. Wii including these platforms.

Mushroom Platforms appear in the backgrounds of the Mushroom Kingdom stage of the original Super Smash Bros. and Super Smash Bros. Ultimate (in the former, they are green rather than orange) and the Super Smash Bros. Melee stage of the same name. They also appear in the Golden Plains and Rainbow Road stages in Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS and, in the former stage's case, Ultimate. Platforms in the former stage are pass-through platforms, while platforms in the latter are not, as it is one of the stage's main fighting arenas.

In Donkey Kong 64, Mushroom Platforms of various sizes and colors appear in Fungi Forest, where most can be climbed like trees. An especially large one can even be entered and climbed from the inside.

In the Mario Kart series, Mushroom Platforms first appear in the background of Mario Circuit in Mario Kart: Double Dash!! Mushroom Gorge in Mario Kart Wii, Mario Kart 7, Mario Kart Tour, and Mario Kart 8 Deluxe (in its Booster Course Pass DLC) features standard green Mushroom Platforms as traversable objects alongside red (and, in versions after Mario Kart Wii, blue) Mushroom Trampolines, as well as Mushroom Platforms in the background of the course. The Mushroom Platforms do not cause players to bounce as the Mushroom Trampolines do, though in Mario Kart Tour and Mario Kart 8 Deluxe, Jump Boosts can be performed when driving off of the edge of a Mushroom Platform. In Mario Kart Tour, Mushroom Platforms also appear in GBA Sky Garden's Smash Small Dry Bones bonus challenge.

In Mario & Luigi: Superstar Saga, Little Fungitown is a town built atop several Mushroom Platforms (known as Great Mountain Mushrooms), along with several of the tree-like platforms from Super Mario Bros.

In Mario & Luigi: Partners in Time, Mushroom Platforms appear directly outside Hollijolli Village and must be climbed to reach it. Smaller, Shroob mushroom-patterned ones appear in the ruins of Toad Town.

In Mario & Luigi: Bowser's Inside Story, Mushroom Platforms appear within Bowser's body in a few locations, notably Toad Square. Sometimes, they appear upside-down.

In Donkey Kong Jungle Beat, Mushroom Platform appear in groups in a few stages starting with Jungle Deeps. They start out small, but when Donkey Kong claps near them, they grow tall and wide. In New Play Control! Donkey Kong Jungle Beat, a specific glowing mushroom must be clapped at to make the group grow, though they eventually shrink back down.

In Super Princess Peach, shelf fungus versions of Mushroom Platforms grow from the trees in Hoo's Wood.

Many Mushroom Platforms appear in The Super Mario Bros. Movie in the area where Mario first arrives in the Mushroom Kingdom after emerging from a Warp Pipe. He also first encounters Toad in this area after being surprised by him when trying to touch a blue mushroom, with Toad telling him that it will kill him before correcting himself and declaring that it is safe to touch.

In Yoshi's Woolly World and its 3DS remake, there are three colors of Mushroom Platforms, which are made of yarn with a white circle on top. They make their first appearance in Sponge Cave Spelunking. When Yoshi lands on one, its cap wiggles, and with his Ground Pound triggered on these platforms, the red ones have nothing inside, but the green ones contain treasures which are mostly beads and the purple ones release Nipper Spores. In the course Yoshi Branches Out, all of the Mushroom Platforms are red.

Mushroom Platforms appear in Animal Crossing: New Horizons as the furniture items Large Mushroom Platform and Small Mushroom Platform as part of the Mario Series added to the game as part of an update celebrating the Super Mario Bros. 35th Anniversary. The items can be customized; the Large Mushroom Platform is red by default and can be changed to blue or green, while the Small Mushroom Platform is yellow by default and can be changed to pink or green.