Mushroom Trampolines, also known as mushroom platforms and pink toadstools, are a type of platform appearing in several Super Mario games as well as the Mario Kart series. As they are trampolines, the player bounces while standing on them, like with a Note Block or Trampoline. In the platform games, holding down the button when the player jumps results in a higher jump.

Mushroom Trampolines are objects in Donkey Kong 64. They are short, squat, and appear only in Fungi Forest. Mushroom Trampolines bounce at varying heights. One small mushroom appears in the bonus stage called Speedy Swing Sortie!

In Super Mario Sunshine, a Jump Mushroom appears in the underside area of Pianta Village. It is a small green-capped mushroom atop a larger red-capped Mushroom Platform. It can be bounced on to reach the scaffolding, which can be used to find a path to the surface.

In New Super Mario Bros., Mushroom Trampolines appear most prominently in World 1-5, but also in World 1-3 and World 7-4. In this game, they are magenta with lighter-colored spots and will bounce the player even higher if they press the jump button at the correct time.

Mushroom Trampolines return in New Super Mario Bros. 2 in World 4-A, World Flower-3, and World Flower-Castle. In the former two levels, their spots are peach-colored and their undersides are orange, whereas the latter level features a dark grey variant with lighter-grey diamond spots. Enemies now bounce off of them as well.

Mushroom Trampolines also appear in Super Mario 3D Land, Super Mario 3D World, and Super Mario 3D World + Bowser's Fury, serving the same purpose as in the 2D games. In these games, they are orange with yellow spots, and only a few of them have stalks. The player may ground pound the Mushroom Trampoline to bounce even higher.

There are big mushrooms throughout the Mushroom Castle in Super Mario Odyssey. They propel Mario high into the air when jumped on, and are one of several trampoline-like objects throughout the game. Unlike the Mushroom Trampolines of its predecessors, big mushrooms exhibit more naturalistic designs and are embedded into the soil. Some big mushrooms bear the colors of mushroom power-ups from prior games, namely Mega Mushrooms and Mini Mushrooms.
Small mushrooms appear around the big mushrooms that are immediately flown a great distance when walked into. The game implies they mature into the big mushrooms over time.

Mushroom Trampolines from Super Mario 3D World appear in Super Mario Maker 2 in the Super Mario 3D World style. They can be changed to blue, which causes them to remain stationary. Unlike in their source game, players can bounce higher off the Mushroom Trampolines by holding the jump button when bouncing off them instead of ground pounding it. Another variant, the ON/OFF Trampoline, added in version 3.0.0, is activated by pressing an ON/OFF Switch.

Mushroom Trampolines reappear in Super Mario Bros. Wonder, where they serve the same purpose as previous games.

In Mario Kart Wii, the cave section of Mushroom Gorge features multiple Mushroom Trampolines, which racers must bounce on to traverse the bottomless pit. Additionally, bouncing off Mushroom Trampolines allows the racer to perform Tricks. Only the red mushrooms are Mushroom Trampolines, however, as the green ones are Mushroom Platforms and do not bounce racers up. Many Mushroom Trampolines can also be seen in the background in the cave.
Mushroom Trampolines were also featured in tournaments. For the second tournament of July 2009, many Mushroom Trampolines were placed on Yoshi Falls. The player had to bounce over sections of water to complete the track. For the second tournament of January 2010, the player had to pass through gates on a version of DK Mountain with two Mushroom Trampolines at the end instead of a bridge. For the first tournament of April 2010, the player had to bounce around Mushroom Trampolines in the middle of the sea in Peach Beach.

Mushroom Gorge returns in Mario Kart 7, although in this rendition of the course, the green Mushroom Platform on the left path inside the cave is replaced by a blue-colored Mushroom Trampoline, which not only bounces the racer up, but also triggers the kart's glider in a similar fashion to a Glide Ramp. Because of this, a few of the Mushroom Trampolines inside the cave are absent as well. A single red Mushroom Trampoline also appears on Mario Circuit, and a rainbow-colored one appears on Rainbow Road, which serves the same function. The tamborines in Music Park and the flower in DK Jungle have very similar functions to Mushroom Trampolines.

In Mario Kart 8 and Mario Kart 8 Deluxe, the tambourine in 3DS Music Park and the flower in 3DS DK Jungle return, and the Bowser balloons on Cloudtop Cruise function like Mushroom Trampolines. Actual Mushroom Trampolines appear in the Mario Kart 8 Deluxe – Booster Course Pass on GBA Sky Garden, Wii Mushroom Gorge, 3DS Rainbow Road, and Squeaky Clean Sprint, using their Mario Kart Tour appearances, while the Train Night Market Ratchada tents in Tour Bangkok Rush return.
The leaves underneath the Mushroom Trampoline on Squeaky Clean Sprint, as well as the ones toward the beginning of GBA Sky Garden, also act as Mushroom Trampolines.
Landing on top of the trams on Toad Harbor also functions like a Mushroom Trampoline.

Mushroom Trampolines appear in Mario Kart Tour with the same role as in previous Mario Kart games. They return in Wii Mushroom Gorge, 3DS Mario Circuit, and 3DS Rainbow Road, where they are present in the same spots as in their last appearances. A Mushroom Trampoline is also added in a section of GBA Sky Garden. Some course variants, such as N64 Yoshi Valley T and GBA Peach Circuit T, may also feature Mushroom Trampolines in places where they did not previously exist to substitute parts of the track. In RMX Rainbow Road 1R, the rainbow Mushroom Trampoline from 3DS Rainbow Road appears as a shortcut at the final turn. The large, bulky-looking toadstool found in N64 Mario Raceway now acts as a Mushroom Trampoline, but drivers only get to land on it in the course's R/T variant via a Kanaami Road.
The blue Mushroom Trampolines from Mario Kart 7 also return in the Ring Race bonus challenge of N64 Royal Raceway, on all variants of RMX Rainbow Road 2 (barring the R/T variation), Wii Mushroom Gorge, and N64 Yoshi Valley T. Smaller Mushroom Trampolines appear as background elements in Mushroom Gorge. If an item is dropped on the Mushroom Trampolines, they also bounce on it.
If drivers crash right before bouncing off of a Mushroom Trampoline, it will provide them with forward momentum even while their stun animation is still playing, although they do not receive a Jump Boost in the process; however, the momentum with which they proceed upon landing on non-bouncy terrain depends on the amount of time that had passed from the end of the stun animation.
In Bangkok Rush 2, the tents of the Train Night Market Ratchada have a similar function to Mushroom Trampolines.

Mushroom Platforms are objects in Mario and Sonic at the Sochi 2014 Olympic Winter Games. Two appear at either end of the Market Street rink of Snow Day Street Hockey, briefly bouncing characters into the air on contact.

The Rainbow Road track from Mario Kart 7 appears in Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS as a stage, which includes the Mushroom Trampoline. However, unlike in the original game, it is not bouncy and merely acts as one of the main platforms of the stage. It also has no effect on the Shy Guys that drive over it.

Mushrooms with properties similar to Mushroom Trampolines, called Bouncy Mushrooms, appear in Mini Mario & Friends: amiibo Challenge, where they are mainly present in Mushroom Hills. They are found facing upward or sideways and can be initially interacted with just as with any other platform or wall. However, Bouncy Mushrooms can be sprung forward by tapping the yellow button on them, which can be done to bounce a Mini to a higher platform if the Bouncy Mushroom is placed upward, or to catapult it past a gap if it is placed sideways.

In Mario Tennis Aces, Toadette is seen jumping and bouncing on several circular pink-colored Mushroom Trampolines as part of her Special Shot.

In The Super Mario Bros. Movie, Mario bounces off of two Mushroom Trampolines in Toad Town while fighting off Bowser's minions with Donkey Kong.