Musée Champignon (French for "Mushroom Museum") is a museum in Paper Mario: The Origami King. It is a large, white building in Toad Town, next to the Battle Lab. It is first accessible after Mario finds its curator, a yellow Toad with glasses, in the Graffiti Underground. After he is found, the curator runs back to the museum, where he stays at the front desk and tells Mario if any new pieces have been added. Mario can also collect any trophies he has earned from this Toad. Musée Champignon is similar to the Sticker Museum from Paper Mario: Sticker Star and the Prisma Museum from Paper Mario: Color Splash.
The museum's lobby contains four exhibits: an ancient submarine called the Super Marino, a gray Warp Pipe that leads to a fast-travel hub to other areas, and fish prints of the Cheep Cheep and Blooper, if Mario has caught any. The Art Gallery is located to the west, the Sound Gallery is to the east, and the Origami Toad Gallery, Treasure Gallery, and Origami Character Gallery are north of the entrance. If Mario has any new pieces in a gallery, the light above the door is illuminated.
While filling out Musée Champignon's galleries is optional, it plays a role in the story after Mario, Olivia, and Professor Toad free Captain T. Ode from underneath the Scorching Sandpaper Desert. Wanting to explore the sea again, T. Ode looks for the Super Marino, and Olivia tells him about its location in the museum. The curator initially dismisses T. Ode as a myth until he shows up in person to retrieve the Marino. The curator allows him to take it, but soon panics as to what he will put on display instead. Afterwards, a 1/24 scale model of the Marino is used as a replacement.
After Mario has earned every trophy available (completing all of the museum's collections in the process), the curator states he is able to double the admission price (Mario exempted), and Toads can be seen visiting the lobby and galleries.

The Art Gallery features a total of 150 pieces of artwork, which all require a total of 416 Toad Points to be unlocked.

Some origami Toads appear in multiple sections under different numbers (indicated in gray), though they have the same description. There are 64 listed origami Toads, but only 54 unique designs. For a comprehensive table on where to find them, see List of hidden Toads in Paper Mario: The Origami King.

There are 120 Collectible Treasures and 15 trophies in total to collect. For a comprehensive table of their locations, see List of Collectible Treasures in Paper Mario: The Origami King.

The Origami Character Gallery is organized into nine categories: each of the five streamers and "Origami Castle" for the enemies, "Vellumental", "King Olly - Vellumental Forms", and "Special". In order to unlock an enemy, with the exception of the Thwomp and Fuzzy, the player has to defeat it in battle, as defeating it in the overworld with high HP does not count. Some enemies are present more than once in this gallery, though they have same descriptions in every section (with the exception of the Ninjis, which have a different variant that hold tree branches). An enemy is unlocked in all sections regardless of where the player first fought it. Additionally, the player can rotate it and see the subject at all angles, with the exception of Princess Peach, who cannot be seen from the bottom.

The colored columns indicate the section in which an enemy appears (R, B, Y, P, and G for the red, blue, yellow, purple, and green streamers respectively, and O for Origami Castle), marked by its number in the corresponding section.

The Sound Gallery features a total of 244 songs.

The hub on the other side of the gray Warp Pipe in the lobby contains six colored Warp Pipes leading to different areas of the game (with the first five colors corresponding to the streamer regions), though Mario cannot use one until he has unpeeled the tape stuck on the other end in the respective area. Attempting to enter a pipe leading to an area not yet visited causes a prompt to appear saying it is blocked on the other side and Mario to exit the pipe.

If Mario has caught a Cheep Cheep or Blooper at any of the fishing spots, a fish print of his largest catch for each fish is hung on the wall in the lobby (the Cheep Cheep on the left and the Blooper on the right). Obtaining the largest fish prints (after catching the Legendary Cheep Cheep and Legendary Blooper) unlocks the Fish Finder trophy.