Moo Moo Farm (transliterated as Moh Moh Farm on a few occasions) is the second race course of the Mushroom Cup in Mario Kart 64. This course takes place in a farmland, with Monty Moles and Moo Moos in it. Just like all Mushroom Cup courses, this course is relatively simple and is the shortest course in the game, measuring at 527 meters. It later reappears as a classic course in Mario Kart DS as the second race of the Shell Cup, and the Mario Kart Wii track Moo Moo Meadows bears a strong resemblance to it. A sign reading "Nintendo Moo Moo Farm" can also be found on Moo Moo Meadows. Moo Moo Farm cargo trucks also appear in Mario Kart: Double Dash!!, which reference the name of the course and also feature pictures of the Moo Moos and fences on the sides. This course shares its music with Yoshi Valley.
It is the only course from the Mushroom Cup in Mario Kart 64 that does not reappear as a classic course in Mario Kart 7 or Mario Kart Tour.

The course takes place on a farm with Moo Moos visible in the background. It is composed of a wide dirt road that has fences on both sides and makes a single clockwise loop, though there are also some slight left turns and changes in elevation. The track has four sets of Item Boxes, and Chubbies appear as obstacles along the inside of a couple of the turns. There are also two bridges that go over the track; the first can be found about halfway along the track and briefly narrows the track, while the second can be found at the end and is supported by pillars that racers must drive around. The track itself also has a Nintendo logo printed on it, which is visible to the left of the second item set.
The course is the shortest in Mario Kart 64, and it is one of the shortest courses in the whole series.

Moo Moo Farm makes its classic course debut in Mario Kart DS as the second course of the Shell Cup. It has received only improved terrain and graphics, but no game mechanics have been changed. There are also now fewer Monty Moles. Moo Moo Farm was available in Wi-Fi. In addition, this is the only course in the Shell Cup to not be a circuit, as well as not being the introductory track from the original game.

There are two missions that take place on Moo Moo Farm: