Choco Mountain is the third race course of the Flower Cup in Mario Kart 64. 
It returns in Mario Kart DS as the second race of the Leaf Cup; in Mario Kart Tour starting with the 2020 Exploration Tour; and in Mario Kart 8 Deluxe as the third race of the Golden Dash Cup in the Booster Course Pass. In Mario Kart Tour, the course also appears as Choco Mountain R (reversed), Choco Mountain T (with ramps), and Choco Mountain R/T (reversed with ramps), with the former two being introduced along with the normal variant in the 2020 Exploration Tour and the latter in the Wedding Tour. The course features falling rocks as obstacles. A third through it, a chocolate pyramid can be seen. The course's chocolate aesthetic is reminiscent of the Choco Island racecourses from Super Mario Kart. 
In Mario Kart 64, this course's music also plays on Block Fort and Double Deck during Battle Mode.
Mission 4-6 of Mario Kart DS involves the player controlling Donkey Kong, who must hit 10 Item Boxes within 70 seconds. Each Item Box is part of a set composed of one real Item Box and several fake ones. Each Item Box contains a Mushroom. During this mission, there are extra falling rocks.

The course is mostly surrounded by tall cliffs on both sides. It begins with a right turn and a slight left turn followed by the first set of Item Boxes. Racers then take a U-turn to the right and enter a straightaway with a tunnel. The tunnel goes below the start of the track, running perpendicular to it. After the straightaway there are two gradual left turns, with a slight right turn in between. There is also another item set just after the slight right turn. Racers then go off a hill and drive straight before reaching another gradual left turn followed by a U-turn to the left. On the inside of the U-turn is a small body of water, and along the U-turn are falling boulders which can flatten players. There is then a gradual right turn where the track is alongside the gradual left turn from before, but elevated. If racers fall onto the track below, they will not be picked up by Lakitu, meaning they lose some progress and need to turn around to get back on track. Along the gradual right turn is also the last item set. Afterwards, racers take one last slight right turn followed by three consecutive hills and then the finish line.
In the 50cc difficulty level and the Time Trials mode, the curve is protected by a banister where the players could not fall into the trap; however, the banister disappears if the player chooses a higher difficulty level than 50cc.
The following sponsors appear: Luigi's, Nintendo, and Yoshi, all in the form of signs.

Choco Mountain makes its classic course debut in Mario Kart DS as the second course of the Leaf Cup. Not many changes were made, aside from the graphics, and the banister that protects the player in Mario Kart 64 in 50cc and Time Trials was removed completely. Most walls on the course are modified to be flatter, likely due to this game's lack of the crash mechanic. As in the Japanese version of Mario Kart 64, the Nintendo billboard is blue instead of red. The music was arranged to this game's soundfont, though nothing else was changed about it. The course was available on Wi-Fi. 
The following sponsors appear, all in the form of signs: Luigi GP, Nintendo, and Yoshi Kart.

Choco Mountain reappears once more in Mario Kart Tour, where it makes its debut in the 2020 Exploration Tour. The course has seen extensive graphical improvements. Its starting banner has been changed to a wooden sign with a blue, three-dimensional Mario Kart logo, and more signs were added to the track. There is now a scarce amount of foliage on the borders of the road. A pit and some dead trees have been added at the left of the first turn and some small ramps were added just before the face of the mountain. After entering through the mountain, the track now has a cavern section with Swoops, crystals and off-road shortcuts. A Glide Ramp with a pit below and on the right has been added at the end of the cavern. A concrete wall and Fish Bone fossils were added in the part with the boulders. The banister that was originally present in Mario Kart 64 in 50cc and Time Trials reappears in all difficulty levels, but only from the curve right after the boulders. The last turn now has an off-road part that the players can use as a shortcut. The player can now perform a Jump Boost by hitting the broken bridge. In addition, the white fog that covers most the track has been made less dense, making the surroundings slightly more visible. 
Like SNES Donut Plains 1, SNES Koopa Troopa Beach 2, N64 Frappe Snowland and GCN Mushroom Bridge, it retains its original music, rather than using the Mario Kart DS arrangement.
In the T and R/T variants, the glide ramp is now gone, replaced with a series of regular ramps.
The following sponsors appear, all in the form of signs:

For this course's tour appearances, see List of N64 Choco Mountain tour appearances in Mario Kart Tour.

Select "show" to reveal the drivers, karts, and gliders for which N64 Choco Mountain and its variants are always favored or favorite courses. For instances in which additional drivers, karts, and gliders temporarily had this course and its variants as favored or favorite courses, see List of N64 Choco Mountain tour appearances in Mario Kart Tour.

N64 Choco Mountain is heavily patterned after its appearance in Mario Kart Tour, though with updated graphics. The ramps before the cavern section have been removed, as was the ability to trick off the broken bridge. The white fog that covers most of the track in the track’s previous installments has been dramatically reduced, making most of the track visible. The track also receives a country-inspired musical arrangement with harmonica, fiddle, banjo, and electric guitar. Koopa Paratroopas and Shy Guys have been added as spectators on the course.
As with all other courses from Wave 1, this course's icon and lighting were adjusted slightly in the 2.1.0 update. Prior to the aforementioned update, the wheels on the karts did not build up dirt despite the fact that Choco Mountain is a dirt-based track.