Kalimari Desert (named Kara Kara Desert on a few occasions) is the fourth and final course of the Mushroom Cup in Mario Kart 64. The name of the course is likely a portmanteau of Kalahari Desert, a real-life desert in Southern Africa, and Mario. In Paper Mario, a train known as the K64 is based on the train in the course, and when the player rides on it, an arrangement of the course's theme plays.
Kalimari Desert reappears in Mario Kart 7 as the first race of the Leaf Cup, and in Mario Kart 8 Deluxe as the third race of the Turnip Cup. The course also reappears in Mario Kart Tour, debuting in the Tokyo Tour. In Mario Kart Tour, there exists a rerouted version of this course called Kalimari Desert 2, which takes racers into the tunnel.

The course takes place in a vast desert, with a large mesa on the left of the track. On both sides of the track is sand, with darker portions of the sand counting as out of bounds. The course begins with a large gradual U-turn to the left, and the first set of Item Boxes lies in the middle. Racers then cross over some train tracks and take a slight right turn, followed by another item set and a second railroad crossing. There is then one very long and gradual turn to the left, with one last item set at the end. A slight right turn and a slight left turn then bring racers to the finish line. The train track that racers encounter makes a simple loop and can be driven on; however, it costs time, and it will prevent a lap from counting if it is taken the entire way around.
The course's most notable feature is the two trains that go through the mesa. The trains constantly move clockwise around the track, often passing through the racers' path. Depending on what mode is being played, the trains may or may not have passenger coaches attached to them: when playing in single-player, the locomotives each have one coal tender and five passenger cars, whereas in two-player mode, the trains are quite short, having an engine, a coal tender and only one passenger car each, and in three-player or four-player mode, the trains consist only of the locomotive/engine, with no coal tender or passenger cars present. If the player runs into one of them, they are thrown in the air. CPU drivers pull their brakes and stop at the railroad crossings when a train passes by. It is possible, but very difficult, to cross the train track while the train is there by driving through the gap between the coaches.
The railroad crossing sounds are taken from real Japanese National Railway railroad crossing signals with electronic bells. In addition, the railroad crossing signs' lettering appears to be mirrored. The signs in later iterations of the course are unlettered.

A notable shortcut can be found at the first train track crossing. The player must turn left and follow the train track into the tunnel until they pass where the finish line is on the actual course. Afterwards they must turn around and use a Star before driving forwards to return to the course. If done correctly, the lap will count, skipping almost the entire track. This can only be performed on the first two laps.

Kalimari Desert makes its classic course debut in Mario Kart 7 as the first course of the Leaf Cup. There are now two shortcut ramps near the end of the first corner and before the third corner of the track to accommodate the new gliding feature, allowing racers to glide over the trains. The players can also use mushrooms to gain easy access to these ramps. Several wooden ramps also litter the inside and outside of the track, and as always, can be tricked to gain a small boost. However, the train tunnel can no longer be entered because it is now an out-of-bounds area, making the lap glitch impossible in this game. The trains are also shorter: they have only three passenger carts while they had five in the original version of the track, and they now seem to travel more slowly.
Much like in Mario Kart 64, two trains are present, but only one train is present when doing online multiplayer races. Unlike in Mario Kart 64, the mini-map of this course does not show the path of the train track. The electric crossing bell sounds are also replaced with more appropriate American-style mechanical crossing bell sounds. Later versions of the course would retain this change.

Kalimari Desert reappears in Mario Kart Tour, starting with the Tokyo Tour. The course's starting line now features a wooden banner with the classic Mario Kart logo on it and a wooden wagon wheel resting along the right side of the post, rather than taking its appearance from Mario Kart 64 and Mario Kart 7. Since racers are always moving forward, colliding into the train causes them to launch over it unharmed while they perform a Jump Boost. The train can also be knocked into the air with a Super Horn, a Mega Mushroom or a Bowser's Shell.
The course uses the source quality version of the original N64 music track from Mario Kart 7 rather than the original N64 sequenced music track that has the N64's audio compression.
The course also appears as Kalimari Desert R (reversed), Kalimari Desert T (with ramps), and Kalimari Desert R/T (reversed with ramps). The former two were introduced along with the normal variant in the Tokyo Tour, while the latter was introduced in the 2019 Holiday Tour. In the R variant, a glide ramp along the main route allows racers to glide over the train. In the R and R/T variants, the train itself travels in the opposite direction. In the T variant, Kanaami Roads guide racers over both train crossings. In the R/T variant, the course is now a figure-eight: Racers use Kanaami Road to go across the mesa on two occasions. As a result, racers spend a large portion of the race driving the course forwards despite it being a "reverse"/trick variant.

Combining the totals for the two different iterations together, Kalimari Desert has appeared in forty-six different tours, as of the Night Tour, the most out of any course to date, beating the second most frequent course, DS Waluigi Pinball, by thirty tours.
For this course's tour appearances, see List of N64 Kalimari Desert tour appearances in Mario Kart Tour ยง N64 Kalimari Desert.

Select "show" to reveal the drivers, karts, and gliders for which N64 Kalimari Desert and its variants are always favored or favorite courses. For instances in which additional drivers, karts, and gliders temporarily had this course and its variants as favored or favorite courses, see List of N64 Kalimari Desert tour appearances in Mario Kart Tour.

Starting from the Wild West Tour, a rerouted version of this track known as Kalimari Desert 2 (N64 Kalimari Desert 2 in-game when selected) is featured. It has two sections: one that starts on the main route but switches to the railroad section at the second intersection, and the other that starts in the tunnel and goes back to the main route again at the second intersection, after which it continues on like normal. This course is also a favorite of Captain Toad, Toadette (Explorer), and Dixie Kong once they reach level 6.
The first section begins from the regular starting line. The course starts out following the same path as the original, with the first glider shortcut still being accessible. However, a wooden ramp has been added shortly before the first railroad crossing, and ramps with dash panels appear on both sides of the first intersection allowing racers to jump over the railroad. The course continues and curves to the right toward the tracks, though the glider shortcut normally found in this area is blocked off to prevent racers from skipping the railroad section entirely. At the second railroad crossing, racers are rerouted onto the railroad. The course continues on the tracks, with the second section of the course beginning from the entrance of the railroad tunnel near the starting line, and the train starting out right outside the tunnel. Upon reaching the second intersection again, racers are diverted back onto the normal course to continue along the original path. Wooden trick ramps have been added onto the path shortly after this intersection and before the final turn leading to the finish line. Only one train is present on the track in Kalimari Desert 2, moving much slower than the original trains since it now shares the tracks with the racers.
The course also appears as Kalimari Desert 2R (reversed), Kalimari Desert 2T (with ramps), and Kalimari Desert 2R/T (reversed with ramps). The former two debuted alongside the original, while the latter was introduced later in the Toad vs. Toadette Tour. In the R and R/T variants, the train travels in the opposite direction. In the T variant, the first glide ramp shortcut is blocked off, and racers are directed onto the train tracks at the first crossing rather than the second. In the R/T variant, racers are forced to turn around at the first crossing and start going the other way on the train tracks; as a result, racers spend a large portion of the race driving the course forwards despite it being a "reverse"/trick variant. They only turn around again once they have completed the entire loop and approach the same crossing.

For this course's tour appearances, see List of N64 Kalimari Desert tour appearances in Mario Kart Tour ยง N64 Kalimari Desert 2.

Select "show" to reveal the drivers, karts, and gliders for which N64 Kalimari Desert 2 and its variants are always favored or favorite courses. For instances in which additional drivers, karts, and gliders temporarily had this course and its variants as favored or favorite courses, see List of N64 Kalimari Desert 2 tour appearances in Mario Kart Tour.

Kalimari Desert reappears in Mario Kart 8 Deluxe as part of Wave 2 of the Booster Course Pass. It is the third course of the Turnip Cup. It is based on its Mario Kart Tour design, but has been given a major graphical update. This time, in a similar vein to the city races from Mario Kart Tour, Kalimari Desert combines both the original along with Kalimari Desert 2 from Tour into one race, with the layout changing between laps. This makes it the first course in the game that is not a course from Mario Kart Tour to change its layout between laps/sections and start and end in the same place. This version of Kalimari Desert is also the first course in the series to use both laps and sections, as well as the only course in the game to use both the classic and modern Mario Kart logos for the banners.
The first lap takes the player around the standard Kalimari Desert route, though arrow fields can be seen blocking off the path to the train tracks and train tunnel entrance that's next to the first railroad crossing. When the second lap begins, the route starts following that of Kalimari Desert 2, where a Kanaami Road appears at the second railroad crossing to divert the player onto the tracks (similar to Kalimari Desert 2R/T, but on the opposite side of where that ramp would appear). Like the arrow fields, the ramp is independent to each player in multiplayer, meaning that it only appears for each player on their second lap, while it is invisible to players that are on the first or third lap. The third lap begins after the player enters the tunnel. After exiting the tunnel, the route finishes as normal.
In all three laps, upon reaching the first railroad crossing, the player can choose to either continue going on the main route, or go along the train tracks. However, the Item Box placements do change with each lap, with two Double Item Boxes only being present on the train tracks during the final lap. Regardless of the player's decision though, the two paths meet at the second railroad crossing. 
Like Kalimari Desert 2, there is only one train instead of two, though the train moves much faster and once again hurts racers who come in contact with it, like the versions prior to Tour. The fence on the left side of the train tracks has been removed, and the Glide Ramp after the first railroad crossing was moved up and is also closer to the track, presumably to accommodate Kalimari Desert 2's layout (as in Tour, the ramp is blocked off). Inside the tunnel, lights have been added onto the walls. The eagles seen in Shy Guy Falls now fly above the course. The music has been rearranged with more live instruments, as well as trumpets in place of the whistles in the original. The minimap again shows the glider ramp locations on it, as was the case in Mario Kart 7, as well as showing the train track, much like Mario Kart 64 and Kalimari Desert 2's minimap in Mario Kart Tour. Pipes have been added to the tops of some mesas.
Unlike the other courses in the Booster Course Pass that change routes every lap (aside from Tour London Loop), Kalimari Desert allows racers to drive the whole length of the track in reverse without any obstructions or being picked up by Lakitu; if this is done, the game loads various course elements in advance as racers traverse the course backwards, including arrow fields and the ramp that leads players onto the train tracks during lap 2.