Frappe Snowland (named Frappesuno Land on one occasion) is the second race course of the Flower Cup in Mario Kart 64. It takes place in a softly snowing region of hills. Its obstacles include many snowmen scattered around the edges of the course. There is also a giant snow statue of Mario and one of Yoshi. The course shares its music with Sherbet Land; both are uniquely given blue-tinted minimaps to distinguish from the white scenery.
Frappe Snowland reappears in Mario Kart DS as the second course of the Banana Cup, and in Mario Kart Tour starting with the Ice Tour.

The course begins with a right turn followed by a left turn and the first set of Item Boxes. Racers then take a slight right turn followed by a U-turn to the left; next to the slight right turn is a large Yoshi statue. Afterwards there is a right turn followed by a left turn and a brief straight. Along the straight is a jump over a river followed by another item set. There is then a left turn into a wide area with many snowmen and a large Mario statue. The track narrows after and racers take a left turn followed by a right turn and another left turn. The snow on both sides of the track then becomes elevated by tall cliffs as the track remains flat, cutting through the cliffs at a result; if racers try to drive up the cliffs, Lakitu brings them back to the track.  Here there is one last item set followed by a brief straight, another left U-turn, and a right turn. Racers then use a short wooden bridge to cross the river again and reach the finish line soon after.
While most of the course's snowmen obstacles appear near the Mario statue, some can be found in other areas on or next to the track.

The player, as soon as they start the race, must turn back and go to the bridge. There, the player must turn facing the goal. The player must head to the snowy area from the bridge without touching the path that leads to the goal and move until Lakitu picks them up. If done well, Lakitu will position the player on the bridge and, when going to the finish line, it will count as one lap.

Frappe Snowland makes its classic course debut in Mario Kart DS as the second course of the Banana Cup, and it remains mostly unchanged from its original variant, though most of the turns were slightly reshaped. Frappe Snowland was one of the many courses that were available to play over Wi-Fi.
The ghost data for this course in Time Trials is 2:08:781, and uses Wario in the Brute.

There is one mission that takes place on Frappe Snowland:

Frappe Snowland reappears in Mario Kart Tour, starting with the Ice Tour. It is based on the Mario Kart DS course layout. The Mario and Yoshi snowmen now look more lifelike and a glide ramp shortcut was added behind the glaciers, a wooden bridge is added after the jump before the snowman section, and the starting banner has been changed to a wooden sign with a blue, three-dimensional Mario Kart logo. Another shortcut has also been added after the Yoshi snowmen, which features several log ramps.
The course also appears as Frappe Snowland R (reversed), Frappe Snowland T (with ramps), and Frappe Snowland R/T (reversed with ramps). The former two debuted alongside the original in the Ice Tour, while the latter debuted in the Vancouver Tour. In the R variant, all snowmen appear in pairs side-by-side.

For this course's tour appearances, see List of N64 Frappe Snowland tour appearances in Mario Kart Tour.

Select "show" to reveal the drivers, karts, and gliders for which N64 Frappe Snowland and its variants are always favored or favorite courses. For instances in which additional drivers, karts, and gliders temporarily had this course and its variants as favored or favorite courses, see List of N64 Frappe Snowland tour appearances in Mario Kart Tour.