Luigi Raceway, alternatively named Luigi Circuit (which is also its Japanese name) or Luigi's Circuit, is the introductory track of Mario Kart 64, serving as the first course of the Mushroom Cup. It is Luigi's home track of the game and shares its music with Mario Raceway, Wario Stadium and Royal Raceway. This song received an arrangement for the Mario Circuit stage in Super Smash Bros. Brawl, which returns in Super Smash Bros. Ultimate under the name "Figure-8 Circuit". In the latter game, the song is able to be played on any Mario Kart stage as well as on Battlefield, Big Battlefield, Small Battlefield, and Final Destination as of the version 8.1.0 update. The course is reminiscent of various NASCAR-style speedway tracks with large, broad corners allowing for high-speed racing. It is the longest introductory track as well as the first Luigi-themed course in the Mario Kart series.
Luigi Raceway reappears in Mario Kart 7 as the first course of the Shell Cup, and in Mario Kart Tour starting with the 2022 Mario vs. Luigi Tour.

The course begins near a grand stand full of cheering audience, atop which is a large model of the Luigi Cap. Its layout is very simplistic compared to most other tracks and there are no obstacles. There is first a long straightaway followed by the first set of Item Boxes, after which racers take an incredibly long turn to the left and reach the entrance of a tunnel. They take a slight right turn as they enter the tunnel, pass another item set in the middle of it, and take another slight right turn as they exit. A four-sided display with Luigi's face on it can be seen in the background. There is then a second long turn to the left, with the last item set placed close to its end. A straightaway then brings racers to the finish line. During the race, a hot-air balloon depicting Luigi's face dips onto the course at the start of the second and third laps, hanging an Item Box beneath. The Item Box always contains a Spiny Shell and may be hit if the player hops at the right time just as the balloon reaches its lowest point of descent.
While the course features no specific notable shortcuts, racers can use Mushrooms or a Star to drive through the large amount of off-road on the inside of the U-turns, cutting them off.
This is the only introductory course from the first four games in the Mario Kart series to not appear as a classic course in Mario Kart DS. As such, it is also the only introductory course from the first four games to not be in the game's Shell Cup. Instead, N64 Moo Moo Farm appeared alongside the other introductory courses in that cup.

If a player beats the time of 1:52:00 on this course in Time Trial mode, they unlock a Luigi staff ghost.

Luigi Raceway makes its classic course debut in Mario Kart 7 as the first race of the Shell Cup. In this version, the Luigi hot air balloon has been moved and a Mii character is inside the basket, and the Item Box hanging below it that always gave out a Spiny Shell has been replaced with a regular Item Box. An alternate way has also been added on the platforms next to the curves that were inaccessible in the original N64 version, and it has Dash Panels on them. This is one of two Luigi courses that appear in the Shell Cup, the other being DS Luigi's Mansion from Mario Kart DS.
This course and SNES Rainbow Road are the only courses not to use either gliding or underwater driving features in Mario Kart 7.
This is the only introductory course from the first six games to be in Mario Kart 7's Shell Cup.

Luigi Raceway also reappears in Mario Kart Tour, starting from the 2022 Mario vs. Luigi Tour. Prior to the course's introduction, two badges were released featuring the name of the track. The Luigi Parafoil reuses one of the badges' logos, which also later appears on the blimp in GBA Luigi Circuit. Luigi Raceway is the last classic course from Mario Kart 7 to return in Mario Kart Tour.
The course's background now features hills similar to the ones seen in 3DS Mario Circuit and 3DS Rock Rock Mountain. The markings now split the road in two lanes instead of three, and curbs line the corners. The platforms next to the curves are now striped, and the second had its color changed to yellow. The hill where the tunnel passes is higher. The grandstand was slightly redesigned. Much like N64 Koopa Troopa Beach, the starting banner uses the updated version of the classic Mario Kart logo, but remains unchanged from its original design, unlike a majority of the other Mario Kart 64 tracks. Like N64 Royal Raceway, the course uses the source quality version of the original N64 music track that was previously used in Mario Kart 7 in this game, being the first non-numbered course since the introduction of 3DS Mario Circuit in the Tokyo Tour seventy-six tours prior to share its music with another track. Luigi Raceway has the longest gap between the first and second appearance of any classic course in the game, not having reappeared for twelve tours until the 2023 Doctor Tour.
The course also appears as Luigi Raceway R (reversed), Luigi Raceway T (with ramps), and Luigi Raceway R/T (reversed with ramps). The former two debuted alongside the normal variant in the 2022 Mario vs. Luigi Tour, while the latter debuted in the 2023 Mario Tour. In the T and R/T variants, the stands are now blocked off by barriers. In the R/T variant, racers must drive on a long stretch of Kanaami Roads that ends with a glide ramp.

For this course's tour appearances, see List of N64 Luigi Raceway tour appearances in Mario Kart Tour.

Select "show" to reveal the drivers, karts, and gliders for which N64 Luigi Raceway and its variants are always favored or favorite courses. For instances in which additional drivers, karts, and gliders temporarily had this course and its variants as favored or favorite courses, see List of N64 Luigi Raceway tour appearances in Mario Kart Tour.