Mario Raceway, rarely named after its Japanese name, Mario Circuit, is the fourth and last course of the Flower Cup in Mario Kart 64. It is Mario's home track of the game and shares its music with Luigi Raceway, Wario Stadium and Royal Raceway. It is the second shortest course of the game after Moo Moo Farm, measuring at 567 meters. 
Mario Raceway reappears in Mario Kart Wii as the fourth and final course of the Shell Cup, and in Mario Kart Tour starting with the 2023 Mario vs. Luigi Tour.

The course begins near a grand stand full of cheering audience, atop which is a large model of the Mario Cap, and it takes place on a simple asphalt road with grass on both sides. Racers first take two right turns, with the first set of Item Boxes in between. Afterwards there is a gradual U-turn to the left, with a large hill on the inside of the turn. A much sharper U-turn to the right follows, with a big toadstool on the inside of the turn. After passing another item set, racers take a left turn followed by a slight right turn and a brief straightaway. To the left of the straightaway is a giant rotating sign with text reading "Go" and Mario's artwork from Super Mario World; running into this sign while using a Star causes it to rise into the air. After the straightaway is another right U-turn followed by a left turn, with the last item set in the middle of the left turn. Racers then drive along a straightaway that goes through a giant Warp Pipe tunnel. A 90° turn to the right then brings racers to the finish line.
While no obstacles appear on the track itself, trees and stationary Piranha Plants appear along the sides of the track. The course also has no specific notable shortcuts, but racers can use Mushrooms or a Star to drive through the large amount of off-road along the course and cut off turns.
The player can press the  Button on the title screen to display the best time recorded for Mario Raceway.

If a player beats the time of 1:30:00 on this course in Time Trial mode, they unlock a Mario staff ghost.

Mario Raceway makes its classic course debut in Mario Kart Wii as the fourth and last race of the Shell Cup. Some of the new elements added to the track are a ramp to perform tricks in the middle of the rough grass past the toadstool, and Shine Sprites can be seen on the "Mario Star" advertisements on the side of the course near the finish line. The rotating signs feature new artwork of Mario which is later used for Mario's Nintendo 3DS AR Card and the king card in the NAP-02 deck of Mario Playing Cards. The Piranha Plants have been updated to match their modern appearance. The Warp Pipe tunnel also allows tricking off the sides as the racer comes out. The first Mario Kart Wii tournament of November 2008 was on this course, with extra obstacles such as Pokeys from DS Desert Hills and Dry Dry Ruins, and oil slicks from SNES Mario Circuit 3.

November 2008's second tournament required players to complete a Time Trial on a version of Mario Raceway with more obstacles: The road now has many oil slicks, more Piranha Plants appear in the grass, and several Pokeys appear in the sand just before the tunnel. Players start the Time Trial with no items, but there are several sets of Item Boxes which will always yield a Golden Mushroom. The tournament was later repeated as the second tournament of November 2010, the second tournament of March 2012, and the first tournament of June 2013.

Mario Raceway returns in Mario Kart Tour starting from the 2023 Mario vs. Luigi Tour. It was the final N64 course added to the game. Visually, the course resembles the Mario Kart Tour iteration of N64 Luigi Raceway, with the grandstand, the starting banner and the trees having the same design of the mentioned course. Hot-air balloons have been added to the background, akin to N64 Yoshi Valley. The rotating signs' design is retained from Mario Kart Wii, except the "Go" is in a different font and the background has a checkered pattern. A glass wall now runs along the entire stretch of the hill in the top half of the course. Similarly to N64 Choco Mountain, the proportions of the course differ notably from the original version of the track - most notably, the track has been condensed vertically. The U-turn around the mushroom is more banked and no longer has any offroad between it and the wall. The brick wall now has indented sections. Goombas now appear in the pipe section; the pipe itself is now designed like the one present in 3DS Mario Circuit, and has rocks blocking off the offroad areas on either side of it, making it now mandatory to drive through. Like N64 Royal Raceway and N64 Luigi Raceway, the course uses the Mario Kart 7 arrangement of the Mario Kart 64 raceway music.
The course also appears as Mario Raceway R (reversed), Mario Raceway T (with ramps), and Mario Raceway R/T (reversed with ramps). In the R variant, some of the Piranha Plants to the side of the track are no longer passive. In the T and R/T variants, racers drive across several mushroom trampolines. In the R/T variant, the mushroom at the U-turn is used as an additional mushroom trampoline, and a glide ramp allows racers to drive on top of the pipe on lap 2.
This is the only course in the game that has never been playable without Team Rally rules; however, Wii Mushroom Gorge R/T is also exclusively available in team play as part of the 2023 Mii Tour.
N64 Mario Raceway, SNES Bowser Castle 3, and GBA Lakeside Park are the only classic courses in Mario Kart Tour to only ever appear in one tour.

For this course's tour appearances, see List of N64 Mario Raceway tour appearances in Mario Kart Tour.

Select "show" to reveal the drivers, karts, and gliders for which N64 Mario Raceway and its variants are always favored or favorite courses. For instances in which additional drivers, karts, and gliders temporarily had this course and its variants as favored or favorite courses, see List of N64 Mario Raceway tour appearances in Mario Kart Tour.