Koopa Troopa Beach (transliterated as Noko Noko Beach on a few occasions) is the third race course of the Mushroom Cup in Mario Kart 64. It acts as a successor to the Koopa Beach courses in Super Mario Kart, and features a distinct Koopa Troopa rock formation seen shortly after the race begins. The track is the first in the game to feature an explicit shortcut available without the use of an item. 
Koopa Troopa Beach reappears in Mario Kart 7 as the first course of the Banana Cup, and in Mario Kart Tour starting with the New York Tour.

The course takes place along a beach with rocky cliffs to the left of the track and water to the right of it. It begins with a slight right turn and a left turn, where racers encounter the first set of Item Boxes. They then go left or right around a giant Koopa Troopa shaped rock. Once the paths join there is a long gradual left turn followed by a simple ramp and another item set. Racers then pass under a rocky arch and enter a wider area with a right turn; along the turn is three more simple ramps, with an Item Box atop each, but racers can also cut off the turn by driving through some shallow water. Afterwards the track narrows again and there is another gradual left turn, with an item set at the beginning and end of it. In the middle of the turn is a much longer and narrower ramp that allows racers to jump over a large rock and reach a single Item Box; the Item Box always contains a Spiny Shell. Otherwise, racers must go around the rock, and there are palm trees to the left that racers must also avoid. After the gradual left turn, one more right turn brings racers to the finish line. Along this last turn is two more simple ramps, the first of which has three Item Boxes on top. Throughout the course there are also small crabs as obstacles.

A notable shortcut can be found just past the rocky arch. By going off a small ramp along the subsequent right turn and either using a Mushroom or a well-timed hop, the player can enter a narrow cave. Driving straight through this cave will lead the player through a waterfall, and they return to the track just after the large rock, cutting off a turn in the process.

Koopa Troopa Beach makes its classic course debut in Mario Kart 7 as the first race of the Banana Cup, with its title shortened to Koopa Beach in the American English version. The track has received several major changes. Players can now fully drive underwater. The start-finish line has an additional rock cropping. The two shortcuts from the original have been merged into one. The player can access a Glide Ramp on top of an underwater area which leads to the cave shortcut via a mushroom during high tide, or with a good aerial trick during low tide. Additionally, the shortcut through the rock hill has been shortened. Other changes are that the Spiny Shell item box has now been replaced with a coin, and Sidesteppers replace all of the crabs. All the ramps now encompass Dash Panels, and can be used to perform Tricks after jumping off them.

Koopa Troopa Beach returns in Mario Kart Tour, starting with the New York Tour. It retains its appearance from Mario Kart 7 and using the source quality version of the original N64 music track from that game as well. The rocks on the track are now a light shade of gray, and the Koopa rock is once again made more realistic.
SNES Koopa Beach 2 was also renamed to SNES Koopa Troopa Beach 2 in this game, most likely to be consistent with the name of this track.
The course also appears as Koopa Troopa Beach R (reversed), Koopa Troopa Beach T (with ramps), and Koopa Troopa Beach R/T (reversed with ramps). The latter was not added until the Vancouver Tour. In the R and R/T variants, all racers can easily enter the cave shortcut. In the T and R/T variants, there is a Noshi in the bay halfway through the course.

For this course's tour appearances, see List of N64 Koopa Troopa Beach tour appearances in Mario Kart Tour.

Select "show" to reveal the drivers, karts, and gliders for which N64 Koopa Troopa Beach and its variants are always favored or favorite courses. For instances in which additional drivers, karts, and gliders temporarily had this course and its variants as favored or favorite courses, see List of N64 Koopa Troopa Beach tour appearances in Mario Kart Tour.