NES Open Tournament Golf is a Nintendo Entertainment System golf game featuring Super Mario characters. It is the third entry in the Mario Golf series. The game takes place on Earth, with its courses being set in Japan, Australia, France, the United Kingdom, and the United States of America (with the state of Hawaii receiving its own course in the Japanese version, separate from the US one). The Japanese version of the game features different playable courses and fewer characters. In Western versions of the game, the graphics and soundtrack are also slightly changed. Although the Japan and UK courses are also playable courses in Western versions, they do not contain the same holes. For example, hole 5 in the Australia Course is hole 15 in the US Course.
A version of this game was developed for the Nintendo PlayChoice-10 arcade machine in the Americas, called Mario's Open Golf.
NES Open Tournament Golf has also been released on the Virtual Console for the Wii for 500 Wii Points, as well as for the Nintendo 3DS's Virtual Console in 2011-2012 and the Wii U's Virtual Console in 2014. The original Famicom game is also one of the 30 titles included in the Japan-exclusive Nintendo Classic Mini: Family Computer. The game was also made available on Nintendo Entertainment System - Nintendo Switch Online for Nintendo Switch Online members on October 10, 2018, with the Japanese version also including a special version titled "マリオオープンゴルフ フルオープンバージョン" (Mario Open Golf: Full Open Version), where all courses are unlocked immediately, which was released on November 14, 2018.

The hole on the left is from the Japanese version, while the one on the right is from international versions. This list is done in course order and hole order. The holes that do not appear in the international versions are not listed here.

In the Club House mode in the game, there is a setting called the Tournament Roster. Here the player can change all of the player's names, just like they could change their own name (which is Mario by default). Here are all the 36 default names on the Tournament Roster. The player cannot change the roster in the Japanese version due to a lack of a tournament mode.

All of the names starting from Miki to Uemura are names of the people who developed and produced the game, while Steve and Tony are names of two people who localized it into the English language.

NES Open Tournament Golf was a coproduction between Nintendo R&D2 and HAL Laboratory. Kenji Miki (director of the original Golf) was the director. The game was Satoru Iwata's first experience in developing a game "from start to finish". The title was also Eiji Aonuma's (credited as a sprite designer) very first work in the video game industry.