Ninjis (alternatively Ninjies) are black and star-shaped devil-like ninja creatures and enemies first appearing in Yume Kōjō: Doki Doki Panic and Super Mario Bros. 2, with the game manuals stating that they haunt the dreams of Family Computer and Nintendo Entertainment System players, respectively. Ninjis were originally portrayed with a fang and clawed feet in artwork, but later appearances remove their claws and replace their teeth with round buttons. Their large eyes are also made rectangular, closer resembling eyeholes in a stereotypical ninja costume.

Ninjis first appear in Yume Kōjō: Doki Doki Panic and Super Mario Bros. 2. In this game, Ninjis serve Wart, a mischievous frog-like monster who had seized control of the dream world known as Subcon. There are two types of Ninji: the first type, called Ninji - 1, charges at the player, suddenly jumping as it approaches; the second type, called Ninji - 2, remains in one place and jumps up and down. In Yume Kōjō: Doki Doki Panic, this Ninji type has three jump heights, but the middle jump height was not retained in Super Mario Bros. 2. The Encyclopedia Super Mario Bros. swaps the names for Ninji A and Ninji B, though not its anglophone localizations.
Ninjis are depicted as purple instead of black in Super Mario All-Stars, BS Super Mario USA and Super Mario Advance, with additional pink inside their ears, as well as buckteeth/fangs. Big Ninjis also appear as somewhat rare enemies in Super Mario Advance. Big Ninjis only jump in place. Like most enemies in Super Mario Bros. 2 and its remakes, all variations of Ninjis can be picked up and thrown at other enemies to defeat them. Big Ninjis yield a Heart if they are thrown to the ground or defeated.

Ninjis, also named Mini-Ninjas, are enemies in Super Mario World and its remake. They are encountered in the Front Door and Back Door levels only, where they have been driven crazy from their isolation there. Ninjis blend in the darkness and are difficult to see unless the searchlight is activated; to accomplish this effect, they reuse their tri-color Super Mario Bros. 2 sprites rather than receiving new sprites. They jump in place and can be defeated with stomps, fireballs, or a cape attack. Like in Yume Kōjō: Doki Doki Panic, they have three jump heights, though the difference is more pronounced. Despite using their previous 8-bit sprites, the artwork for this game reinterprets their red spots as buttons, while previously they had been depicted as parts of the creature's mouth. This interpretation is used for all further depictions, including reissues of Super Mario Bros. 2, despite not looking like the sprites in that game. Ninjis are one of the few enemies absent from the ending credits.

Ninjis are enemies in Super Mario Run. They behave similarly to how they did in Super Mario Bros. 2; jumping periodically in one place. Their running variants do not appear. They appear in the levels Airship Cannons...Fire!, Firing the Airship's Burners, Throwing It All Overboard, and Airship Armada. Their design in this game is similar to their Super Mario Bros. 2 or Super Mario World sprites, but with a chubbier body similar to their Super Mario Advance artwork. These enemies drop an additional three coins onto the course when stomped or when a block they are standing on is hit, on top of the usual coins granted directly to the player. This does not happen if they are defeated by other means, like with a roll.

While Ninjis do not appear as usable enemies in Super Mario Maker 2, the Ninji Speedruns mode introduced in version 2.0 uses Ninji Ghosts to represent other players in speedrun competitions of uploaded levels. If the player representing the Ninji is riding a Yoshi, it will appear to ride a green car. Beating the levels rewards the player's Mii with Ninji-themed clothing. Additionally, during the initial playthrough of a level, a Ninji labeled Ninji Recon gives the player advice. Several Ninji Ghosts can also occasionally be seen in the background on the main Course World menu. Starting in version 3.0, Ninji Ghosts also represent other players’ progress in a Super World.

Ninjis return in Super Mario Bros. Wonder. They serve as both enemies and background elements that appear prominently in Ninji Jump Party as well as in Break Time! Raise the Stage, tapping their feet and jumping to the beat of the music.

Despite appearing prominently in its opening sequence, Ninjis only appear once in The Super Mario Bros. Super Show!, in the episode "Karate Koopa", where they are simply referred to once as blackbelt ninjas by Toad and aid Karate Koopa in his plan to capture Princess Toadstool and sell her into slavery for a fortune. Somewhat parodying their namesake, they are skilled in hand-to-hand combat and speak in thick Japanese accents.

In the Super Mario World animated series, Ninjis appear only in the episode "The Yoshi Shuffle" as spectators to Yoshi and Mario's football game against Bully, Big Mouth, Cheatsy and several Koopa Football Players in the Neon Castle. Here, they are brown in color, have red teeth, distinct fingered hands, and stubby feet without claws.

Ninjis make a few appearances throughout Super Mario-kun, most prominently in the Super Mario World arc, where they are seen protecting the Back Door room. Their depiction in the manga is used in some later artwork, particularly the eye hole and buttons.
Chapter 7 from volume 4 sees Mario, Luigi, and Yoshi accidentally going over Bowser's Castle and ending up in the outskirts of the Valley of Bowser, where the Ninjis' village is located. While in the village, they are attacked by a group of Ninjis who plan on cashing in on Mario's bounty. Of the group, two characters are highlighted: an unnamed female Ninji with lighter colors and a ribbon, and an older and easy-to-anger sensei named Hakkunsai.

In Nintendo Comics System, Ninjis only make minor appearances, with one appearing in the background of the story The Legend, while several, having been beaten senseless by a sleepwalking Mario who believes himself to be Dirk Drain-Head, appear in Bedtime for Drain-Head.

Ninjis appear in the Nintendo Adventure Books as recurring enemies.
In Doors to Doom, a couple of Ninjis, calling themselves the Right&Wrong Brothers, can be found serving as the guardians to the first gates to Wart's lair, where one of them always tells the truth and one always lies. They are guarding two doors; Mario and Luigi must figure out the right question to ask them in order to find out which of the two doors is the correct one that leads to Wart. Also, there are other Ninjis mentioned when the brothers are journeying through Subcon.
In Unjust Desserts, some Ninji are shrunk by Magikoopa and eaten by Yoshi, though Mario never encounters any inside Yoshi, only in the palace garden. 
In Brain Drain, if Luigi (who has had his mind switched with a Koopa Troopa's due to the Synapse Switcher) gets a serving of gooey rations in the cafeteria of Iggy Koopa's base, a Ninji he sits beside tells him that the gray gunk is better than the blue. Some Ninjis are also spotted loitering around the WMUSH radio station when Iggy takes it over.

A Ninji makes a small cameo in the coloring book game Super Mario Bros. & Friends: When I Grow Up, on the Veterinarian page alongside a Tweeter.

In Super Mario Adventures, Ninjis make several appearances, first appearing in the siege of Princess Toadstool's castle. Ninjis also appear when Princess Toadstool attempts to escape her confinement in the Koopalings' tower, aiding Wendy O. Koopa and a brigade of spear-wielding Koopa Troopas in stopping her escape. Later, several Ninjis appear at Bowser's wedding to Princess Toadstool, with one apparently buying a camera from Friendly Floyd.

The Ninjis in Hotel Mario are called Mini Ninjas. They appear as enemies in Stages 3, 4, 5, and 8 of Roy's HardBrick Hotel. They routinely look left and right before hopping in one direction. Their jump is slow and aimless and they can be defeated by jumping on them.

In Paper Mario, several Ninjis live in Starborn Valley and act as the caretakers of the Star Kids. After Chapter 6, there is a Ninji at Merlon's house waiting for Mario. When Mario visits Merlon, the Ninji informs him that Merle, Merlon's son, wishes for Mario to come see him in Starborn Valley.

After 12 years of absence, Ninjis return to the Paper Mario series in Paper Mario: Sticker Star, this time as enemies. They only appear in World 3, and are the weakest enemy that can be encountered in the forest, being only slightly stronger than Goombas. Despite this, Ninjis are still aggressive and chase Mario if they see him. In the overworld, Ninjis tend to hide in the poisoned waters or trees of the forest levels, much like the Bzzaps! in Paper Mario.
In battle, a Ninji can either turn itself into a throwing star and hurl itself at Mario, or it can run up to Mario and slam him. Mario must watch the positions of Ninjis, as they are one of the few enemies that can dodge Mario's attacks (the others being Paragoombas, Shiny Paragoombas and the Wiggler Segments). If they are jumping, they cannot be hammered, and if they are standing still, they cannot be jumped on. If Ninjis are hit with the 'wrong' attacks, they disappear in a cloud of smoke and leave a decoy log behind, causing the attack to miss; they then run back into battle while falling from the top screen. This may cause Mario to fall on his face. Ninjis can be hit with the Hurlhammer sticker even when they are jumping. They can also dodge Shell sticker attacks if they are jumping. If Ninjis are sleeping, crumpled, stopped, or dizzy, they are not able to dodge Mario's jump attacks. A Ninji may drop a Throwing Star sticker when defeated.

Ninjis return in Paper Mario: Color Splash keeping their appearance from the previous game. Unlike in Paper Mario: Sticker Star, Ninjis cannot dodge jump attacks, though they still dodge hammer attacks. When approached by Mario outside of battle, they disappear briefly, and then reappear in front of him.
Ninji are primarily found in Fort Cobalt, where they are found in a corridor filled with crates that is entered if Mario fails the last fence puzzle. One Ninji can be found sleeping, and wakes up if Mario hits his hammer nearby. Ninjis make a brief appearance among the minions causing havoc at the Toad Trainworks when the Sunset Express needs repairs. The Ninjis fought in Toad Trainworks are unavoidable. A Ninji is the third-round opponent in Roshambo Temple #5, although after Larry Koopa is defeated, it will be replaced by the Rock Paper Wizard until beaten.

Both normal paper and origami Folded Soldier versions of Ninjis appear in Paper Mario: The Origami King, predominantly in Shogun Studios. Origami Ninji first appear as enemies in the Ninja Attraction. They appear in a mostly empty room and emerge from square panels of the floor. Near the end of the level, Mario is ambushed by a swarm of Ninji that jump at him from the ceiling in front of the Thwomp picture. A variant of Ninji that holds tree branches is battled at the Spring of Jungle Mist.
Ninjis are completely immune to hammer strikes even when going for a first strike; the Ninji turns into a log and appears above Mario for a surprise attack.
Various Ninjis appear in Shogun Studios, practicing breathing underwater with reed pipes. One Ninji is saddened over forgetting his reed. If Mario gives him a Straw from the Tranquil Pipes Teahouse, he will accept it, trading Mario his Shuriken as thanks. He then jumps into the water, using the straw in the same fashion as a reed.

In Mario vs. Donkey Kong, Ninjis appear with a toy-based design. They are first seen in Fire Mountain, the third world in the game. They jump up and down in one spot, acting much like the second type of Ninjis in Yume Kōjō: Doki Doki Panic and Super Mario Bros. 2, and can give Mario a boost to higher places if he jumps on their heads. They cannot be destroyed, and touching one results in Mario losing a life.
In the original Game Boy Advance version, these Ninjis have a purple coloration like the version of the Ninjis seen in the reissues of Super Mario Bros. 2. In the Nintendo Switch remake, Ninjis were redesigned to more closely resemble the current design of Ninjis, now being black with red buttons.

A Ninji appears as an NPC in Mario Party Advance. He resides on the first floor of the Horror Condo. When his room is entered, he asks for a favor on his behalf. If his request is accepted, he explains that he wants a DVD of Toad Force V. He rambles about the show, saying that it is a lifestyle and constantly praising it, until he realizes that he got carried away. After his monologue, he further explains that the DVD is limited-edition, and that someone in Mushroom Condo might have a copy of it. After the player gets the DVD from Mushbert and gives it to Ninji, he is ecstatic about having a copy of the DVD, and gives the Tile Trial Gaddget in gratitude. He then begins to happily watch the DVD.

Ninji makes his playable Mario Party debut in Super Mario Party Jamboree, where he is an unlockable character. Like the other unlockable character, Pauline, he is unlocked by viewing him while in the Hot-Air Balloon.

A Ninji sometimes appears as an enemy in the Mario Adv. microgame in WarioWare: D.I.Y. Showcase.

Ninjis appear in Mario & Luigi: Paper Jam as enemies in Gloomy Woods. One is fought in Neo Bowser Castle alongside a Paper Ninji, a Spiny and a Paper Spiny as one of Bowser's last lines of defense. They now act more like how actual ninjas would, even using camouflage sheets to hide themselves in the overworld. In battle, regular Ninjis use ninjitsu-styled attacks, such as creating shadow clones of themselves to attack the trio. The fake Ninjis can be told apart from the real one by their blue-colored buttons, as opposed to the genuine one's red buttons. Jump or Hammer attacks also cannot be used consecutively against them, as they avoid taking damage via substitution with a log. If there is a Paper Ninji present, a regular Ninji can fold it into a shuriken and throw it at a bro, who must hammer it back.

Ninjis reappear in Mario & Luigi: Bowser's Inside Story + Bowser Jr.'s Journey, as allies and enemies in the Bowser Jr.'s Journey mode. They are ranged troopers, their Special Skill is Hurt or Heal, and they are strong against Tail Boos and Big Tail Goombas.

A Ninji, referred to as Nimble Ninji on a Play Nintendo article, makes his playable debut in the franchise in Mario Golf: Super Rush as of version 3.0.0. He has the highest speed which is tied with Yoshi and average stamina. His Special Shot is the Hop Skipper, which bounces multiple times on the ground depending on the distance traveled, while his Special Dash is the Glide Dash, which allows Ninji to glide with his cloak.