Nintendo Power is a Nintendo video game news and strategy magazine. It was Nintendo's official magazine in the United States and Canada from 1988 to 2012. It covered all of Nintendo's then-currently active systems (and some inactive ones, if there was any worthy news), along with new and upcoming games for those systems. Nintendo Power contained strategy guides, previews, reviews, and exclusive material not made available to other sources.
On Monday, October 15, 2007, Nintendo of America sold Nintendo Power to Future USA, a magazine company that produces video game magazines. The magazine remained the same except for a few small changes. After Future USA had taken over, the Player's Guide series was dropped (leaving Prima Games to produce the guides), and gifts could no longer be chosen with subscriptions, as the staff would instead choose one.
On August 21, 2012, Nintendo announced that it had opted not to renew its licensing agreement with Future Publishing and that Nintendo Power would cease publication 24 years after beginning. The magazine released its final issue on December 11, 2012. Five years later, on December 21, 2017, Nintendo of America began a podcast called the Nintendo Power Podcast with previous editor-in-chief Chris Slate discussing recent Nintendo-related events.

This is a list of Nintendo Power issues with articles on the Super Mario Wiki.

Several issues of Nintendo Power have comics within them, many of which make references to the Super Mario franchise of games or related media. These comics revolve mostly around the character Nester, who plays various Nintendo games along with other characters. Originally titled "Howard & Nester" (stylized as "Howard & Nester NESTER"), the comics followed both the character Howard Phillips (based on Nintendo of America's then main spokesman and co-editor of the magazine) and Nester as they played games and gave out tips. When the real Howard left Nintendo, his character was likewise retired from the strip, leading to the comics being retitled "Nester's Adventures", with the comics now following Nester and his friends for several issues. After a long hiatus, another unnamed comic was made for Nintendo Power's 20th anniversary, which shows a grown-up Nester with an unnamed son. For Nintendo Power's final issue, a comic called "Nester & Maxwell" (stylized as "Nester & Maxwell MAX") was done as a callback to the original comic series where Nester and his son Maxwell talk about Nintendo Power's past.

Below is a gallery of almost all of the Nintendo Power covers that Mario and others have appeared on. Notably, the Super Mario franchise has been stated to be the most popular subject of the magazine's covers, having appeared on 57 throughout the magazine's run, including those of both its first and last issues.

In 2001, to promote the launch of the Game Boy Advance, Nintendo published a quarterly spin-off magazine of Nintendo Power entitled Nintendo Power Advance, which featured news, tips, and complete walkthroughs for various Game Boy Advance games. It was discontinued in 2002 after only four issues, the last being a complete guide for Super Mario World: Super Mario Advance 2. Mario was featured on all with the exception of the third issue, which featured Golden Sun and had a panel with Wario instead.

From 1991 through 2007, Nintendo Power also published official strategy guides for big Nintendo games. Among the games in the Super Mario franchise that were given Player's Guides are the following: