Nintendo Land is a launch title for the Wii U, which was first released in North America on November 18, 2012, Europe and Oceania on November 30, 2012, and Japan on December 8, 2012. The game's setting is based on a virtual theme park, containing twelve minigames (referred to as attractions by Monita, the game's host) built around various Nintendo franchises, including four based on Super Mario and its series. The minigames are played using  alongside up to four  (with  if needed), and are intended to showcase the many new features of the Wii U.
In North America, Europe, and Oceania, Nintendo Land comes packed in with the Wii U Deluxe Set. It is also sold as a stand-alone product where players can buy it if they have the Basic Set. It was removed from the Nintendo eShop in North America on November 10, 2013, and was readded to it on August 26, 2016.

The minigames featured in Nintendo Land are divided into three distinct types:

These minigames involve every player co-operating in some way. However, it is possible to play these minigames with one player only. These are the largest and most expansive attractions in the game. Number of players: 1-5 (1-4 in Battle Quest)

These minigames involve the one player with the GamePad to pursue or be pursued by other players. Number of players: 2-5

These minigames can be played only by a single player, but other players can help by using special abilities on the Wii Remote that the player with the GamePad cannot do.

The player can use the Nintendo Land Coins obtained in the minigames to play the Coin Game, a retro-styled pachinko minigame located at the Central Tower. For every stage that the player beats, the tower dispenses a prize in the form of a ? Block that lands somewhere in the plaza. Interacting with the block reveals the prize inside which is usually an object found within the various attractions. There are 200 prizes in total.

The game has been well-received. GameXplain gave the single-player 4 stars out of 5 and the multi-player 4.5 stars out of 5 and referred to it as the best Nintendo multiplayer game since Super Smash Bros. Brawl. GamesMaster gave it 86/100 (86%), describing it as "An essential purchase for party lovers that whets the Nintendo appetite. Bring friends." IGN gave it an 8.7 score out of 10, and GameSpot gave it a score of 8 out of 10.

Nintendo Land is the 5th best-selling game for the Wii U, selling 5.20 million copies worldwide, as of March 31, 2020. As of March 31, 2022 the game had sold 5.21 million copies worldwide.