Nintendogs, simply referred to as dogs in Super Mario Odyssey, are puppies from the Nintendogs series. Nintendogs are named after their debut game, which in turn is a portmanteau of "Nintendo" and "dog". Nintendogs have appeared in a few Super Mario games.
Many references to the Super Mario franchise exist in the Nintendogs series. The player can find hats that are the same as Mario's and Luigi's, as well as various toys. These include Mario, Princess Peach, and Bowser karts in the first game (designed with their Mario Kart DS kart style), which can be driven around the room while they play music from courses in Mario Kart: Double Dash!!, as well as Mushroom and ? Block toys to throw around. In the second game, the Mario and Peach karts return, while the Bowser kart is replaced by a Yoshi kart.

Nintendogs appear in the microgame Nintendogs in WarioWare: Smooth Moves, where the player has to high-five the puppies. Nintendogs also appear in a similarly named microgame in WarioWare Gold, where the player must rub them. They appear again in WarioWare: Move It! alongside cats in the microgame nintendogs + cats, where the player must pet both at the same time.

A white Labrador Retriever Nintendog became an Assist Trophy in Super Smash Bros. Brawl. When it is activated, it will distract the players by covering most of the screen and start clawing and barking, although it only works on actual players. Occasionally, pausing the game while the Nintendog is on the screen instantly causes it to leave. Nintendogs also appear as stickers and a trophy in the game.
According to Masahiro Sakurai, Nintendogs were briefly considered to be a playable character in Brawl, but were ultimately dropped as Sakurai did not consider such a character to be suited for battle and would work better as an Assist Trophy instead.

In Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS and Super Smash Bros. for Wii U, the Nintendog returns as an Assist Trophy, though in this game it is a French Bulldog. A number of Nintendogs also appear on the Living Room stage in Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS.
If the game is paused while the Nintendog is on-screen, while it still appears in front of the screen, moving the camera causes it to be missing at every angle and zoom.

In Super Smash Bros. Ultimate, the Nintendog returns as an Assist Trophy, though in this game it is a Toy Poodle. As the Living Room from Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS  returns, a number of Nintendogs also appear. All three Nintendogs that have appeared as Assist Trophies in the series appear as spirits, tying with Andross, Waluigi, and Zero for having the most spirits for an Assist Trophy.
The series name "Nintendogs" is not capitalized in this game, matching the stylization of the series' name.

The fedora-wearing Shiba Inu that appears throughout Super Mario Odyssey is a Nintendog. The dog's fedora cannot be removed, indicating it cannot be captured. The dog appears in the Sand Kingdom, Seaside Kingdom, Metro Kingdom, Moon Kingdom (wearing a space helmet), and Mushroom Kingdom.  Once Mario comes near it, one or two things could happen. It may either immediately run and lead Mario to a certain place, where it digs to reveal a glowing spot. Using a Ground Pound on that spot causes items to appear. These may just be coins, or it could also be a Power Moon. Alternatively, it may begin to follow Mario and only switch to the hunting behavior when they get close to one of the hidden locations. After using the glowing spot, it transitions to the following behavior. While following Mario, the dog is capable of short jumps to keep up. However, it does not follow over pits and up cliffs, instead sitting and waiting until Mario re-enters the dog's area. Mario can also play fetch with the dog by throwing Cappy. The dog will chase the hat and grab it from the air, then return to Mario so that he picks Cappy back up. If Mario falls asleep, the dog will fall asleep next to him. If the dog encounters enemies, it stops to bark at them until the enemy leaves. The dog kicks away any rocks it touches.
The Power Moons found using the dog all have similar titles. The template is "Found ____! Good Dog!", filling the blank with a relevant description of the area. (ex. "Found in the Park! Good Dog!" in the Metro Kingdom and "Found on the Beach! Good Dog!" in the Seaside Kingdom.) 
In the remaining kingdoms, the dog appears inside the Odyssey after the end credits. A Toad in the Mushroom Kingdom claims to be the dog's owner. The dog is also seen in attendance at the wedding of Bowser and Princess Peach, as part of the objective Bowser's Moon Wedding.