The Nintendo DSi is the third model of the Nintendo DS family, announced on October 2, 2008. It is thinner and lighter than its predecessor, the Nintendo DS Lite, with the Game Boy Advance slot being removed. However, this means that the Nintendo DS Rumble Pak, which was used with titles such as Mario & Luigi: Partners in Time, cannot be used. Two cameras, music playback functions, Wi-Fi, internet browser, larger screens, and a Wii-like channel interface were added. The Nintendo DSi has sold 28.44 million units, while the DSi XL sold 12.93 million units as of September 2014. The DSi is also able to download games from the Nintendo DSi Shop (DSiWare), stored on an SD Card or in internal memory. As with the Wii and Nintendo 3DS, one block of storage is 128 KB and SD cards are natively supported up to 32 GB SDHC, so a 32 GB SD card at full capacity would be converted internally by the Nintendo DSi as 262,144 blocks. The DSi's front has a camera lens, and another, smaller lens is located where the mic was positioned on the Lite, allowing for photos to be taken with the DSi open.
A special, limited edition DSi was sold on Black Friday of 2009 (November 27) in the United States only. It was available in Metallic Blue and came preinstalled with five Super Mario software for the system, including Mario vs. Donkey Kong: Minis March Again!, WarioWare: Snapped!, Dr. Mario Express, Mario Calculator, and Mario Clock. Two more limited-edition colors were sold on Black Friday of 2010 (November 26) in the United States: orange and green, each bundled with Mario Party DS.
The Nintendo DSi was released in China by iQue, where it is branded iQue DSi. New Super Mario Bros. was a candidate for being a pre-installed game on the system, along with Nintendogs, which iQue decided upon instead. New Super Mario Bros. was released physically for the iQue DS in July 2009, 5 months before the release of the iQue DSi.
Certain games are compatible with Nintendo DS, but have enhanced performance if ran on a Nintendo DSi. Mario vs. Donkey Kong: Mini-Land Mayhem! is the only game of the Super Mario franchise of this status. Such games can utilize WPA and WPA2 wireless standards as the original Nintendo DS can utilize WEP standard only. One way to tell if a game is DSi-enhanced is the 10-character game ID divided by two dashes on the cartridges, located on the bottom-right of each label. If it has the prefix TWL (codename "Twilight" for DSi) instead of NTR (codename "Nitro" for DS), it is DSi-enhanced, which are also region-locked (just like the iQue DS Game Cards and later the 3DS and New 3DS ones).

The Nintendo DSi XL (DSi LL in Japan) is a revision model of the DSi. It includes larger screens with a diagonal of 107 mm (4.2 inches) (93% bigger than the DS Lite and the regular DSi's screen). The size and weight are increased accordingly so that the new model weighs 50% more than the DSi. According to reports, Nintendo wants to aim the new version to older gamers who might have trouble seeing the screen of a regular DS model.
The handheld console was released in Japan on November 21, 2009, in Europe on March 5, 2010, in North America on March 28, 2010, and in Australia on April 15, 2010.
In 2010, a red, Super Mario-themed DSi XL was released in Japan on October 28 in honor of the 25th anniversary of Super Mario Bros.