A Note Block (originally called a Jump Block and also known as a Music Block) is a type of bouncy block introduced in Super Mario Bros. 3, usually appearing as a white cube with an animated quarter note (♩) on each lateral side. Mario bounces up and down infinitely while on top of one, and he can achieve greater vertical movement if the jump button is pressed as he is being launched upward.

In Super Mario Bros. 3, Jump Blocks first appear in World 1-2. They occasionally hold a power-up for the player if they bounce on it or hit it like a ? Block. Certain Jump Blocks, also known as hidden note blocks or invisible note blocks, are not seen until hit from below. The game also has a special salmon-colored variety called Magic Note Blocks hidden in some courses that catapult Mario or Luigi to Coin Heaven, where many coins and a 1-Up Mushroom can be found. Two of the e-Reader card levels in the GBA remake consist entirely of Jump Blocks: Magical Note Blocks and A Musical Trek.

Jump Blocks reappear in Super Mario World, and behave the same as in the predecessor.

In New Super Mario Bros. Wii, Jump Blocks are redesigned with a white-green checkered pattern, although they act the same. These checkered blocks are uncommon and can be found in stages such as World 7-5, Lakitu Enemy Courses, and Iggy's castle, with the last having them on the lower floor in the boss stage. As of this game, Jump Blocks do not hold power-ups.

Note Blocks later appear in Super Mario 3D Land (making their first appearance in a 3D Super Mario platformer game) under their current name, where they serve the same purpose. However, they retain their original designs, and most of them are two blocks wide (though in the box art and in certain courses, they retain their earlier proportions). They also make musical sounds and notes appear when they are jumped on; in the E3 2011 demo, they can make the orchestral hit noise used for Yoshi's voice in older games, but this was removed from the final game. Magic Note Blocks return and are renamed Super Note Blocks; they once again send Mario to a Coin Heaven area, but now are twice as long, flash colors, and have a white note on their sides.

Note Blocks also appear in New Super Mario Bros. 2. Here, they all retain their appearance from most other 2D platformers. However, the musical notes and sounds (now based on the chords of the game's music) return from Super Mario 3D Land.
Similar blocks known as Trampoline Blocks make an appearance. Unlike Note Blocks, they do not have the music aesthetic, are blue with a black diamond shape imprinted, and the player cannot control how high Mario bounces off the block.

Note Blocks later appear in New Super Mario Bros. U and New Super Luigi U, as well as their shared port. They behave mainly the same as in previous installments, except they now play a fixed note when bounced on.

Note Blocks return in Super Mario Maker andSuper Mario Maker for Nintendo 3DS, where they can be used in all of the styles. While it retains its appearances in Super Mario Bros. 3, Super Mario World and New Super Mario Bros. U, it features a new sprite for its Super Mario Bros. appearance. Pink versions called Music Blocks also appear, using an ♪ eighth note instead of a ♩ quarter note.

Note Blocks return once again in Super Mario Maker 2. Here, they reprise their role in Super Mario Maker; however, they are incompatible with the Super Mario 3D World game style. Music Blocks also return and reprise their role.

While normal Note Blocks do not appear in Super Mario Bros. Wonder, there is a colorful variant called the Marimba Block that does not cause the player to bounce upon landing, but rather bounce the player higher when they jump.

Jump blocks appear in The Adventures of Super Mario Bros. 3, where some have an ♪ eighth note or ♫ two beamed eighth notes instead of a ♩ quarter note.

Jump Blocks appear in some minigames in the Mario Party series. In Mario Party 5, they appear in Bound of Music, where each player has to jump and hit the most Jump Blocks. However, the Jump Blocks are invisible. In Mario Party 9, Jump Blocks appear in their New Super Mario Bros. Wii design in the minigame Upward Mobility. In Mario Party: Island Tour, Jump Blocks return with their New Super Mario Bros. Wii design in the minigame Trounce 'n' Bounce. In Mario Party 10, Note Blocks with their usual design appear in the minigame Bouncy Bounty.

Note Blocks also appear in Mario Superstar Baseball, in the Peach Garden field. If a baseball bounces on top of it, the batter may score a homerun.

Note Blocks appear in Music Park in Mario Kart 7, Mario Kart 8 and Mario Kart 8 Deluxe as decorative elements.
Wide Note Blocks appear in Mario Kart Tour in Squeaky Clean Sprint T, Squeaky Clean Sprint R/T, and Rome Avanti 3T. This time, they play a gameplay role, acting as bouncy platforms similar to Mushroom Trampolines.

Three Note Blocks appear during the final segment of Mario's Figure Skating Spectacular in Mario & Sonic at the Sochi 2014 Olympic Winter Games, where the skaters perform a set of jumps across them.

Note Blocks appear in Mario Golf: World Tour as usable item shots. It causes a Note Block to appear during the ball's course, which sends the ball high into the air over obstacles or with increased shot distance.

In Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS and Super Smash Bros. Ultimate, a Note Block appears on the 3D Land stage, having the same function as in the Super Mario games.

In Mario & Luigi: Paper Jam, when Mario, Luigi, and Paper Mario are rescuing Paper Toads in Sunbeam Plains in the mission Paper Toad Rescue, a row of five Note Blocks can be found. A purple Paper Toad can be found jumping on the blocks, and he can be rescued by hitting one of the blocks while he is on it. Another Note Block can be found in the mission Fly Guy Flyby, where it can be found behind a crack that only Paper Mario can fit in. A Fly Guy holding a Paper Toad can be found above it, and hitting the Note Block causes the Fly Guy to fly away. In the mission Paper Toad Shuffle, two more groups of Note Blocks can be found, each with a purple Paper Toad jumping on them.

In the Super Mario Mash-up in Minecraft, the traditional Note Blocks take on their look from the Super Mario titles.

1 - The text in the European instruction booklet was revised to clarify that the Jump Blocks help Mario bounce along rather than imply that they do so themselves.