The Offroader is a kart from the Mario Kart series. It resembles a dune buggy with bull horns at the front, a spare tire on the back, a flag on the left side, and patterned camo. It also slightly resembles the Pipe Frame kart. The emblem is located on the hood, sides, and rear. As the English name suggests, it has a high off-road stat.

The Offroader debuts in Mario Kart Wii as a large kart, featuring decent acceleration and high handling but below average speed. These traits, unusual among other large karts, make it similar to the Boo Pipes from Mario Kart: Double Dash!!, another heavy vehicle with lightweight qualities. The Offroader's highest strength is its weight, but its off-road capabilities are average although the highest of all other karts in its class. However, even with Dry Bowser's off-road bonus, its off-road still cannot drift on normal off-road terrain.
The Offroader has the worst drifting among all karts in the game and has the second worst drift in the game behind the Phantom, so even with Waluigi's drift bonus, its drift will still be one point below that of the Dolphin Dasher. It is also the slowest large kart in the game, so even with Funky Kong's speed bonus, its speed will only tie with that of the Magikruiser, Standard Bike M, and Phantom. However, the Offroader has the best acceleration and handling out of all the large karts, with the former being tied with the Standard Kart S and the latter being tied with the Classic Dragster, and it is the second heaviest vehicle in the game, as only the Piranha Prowler surpasses it in this aspect. As such, it can easily push around lighter vehicles, and it jumps at the second lowest angle out of any vehicle in the game. It features the same speed and off-road as the Standard Bike S, and its bike counterpart is the Wario Bike, though the Phantom also has a similar drift stat. 
The Offroader's rough small and medium counterparts are the Booster Seat and Daytripper, respectively. The Offroader also has the highest stat total out of any large kart in the game, having 311 stat points. Additionally, this and the Wario Bike are the only large vehicles in the game with a speed stat of less than forty, and it and the Phantom are the only vehicles in the game with a drift stat of less than twenty.
If Bowser rides the Offroader, it will pass the Piranha Prowler's default weight stat by two points. Similarly, if Wario or Donkey Kong ride the Offroader, its weight will tie with the Piranha Prowler's default weight.
Dry Bowser drove this vehicle in the second March 2009 tournament.

The Offroader returns in Mario Kart Tour, where it was added in the Jungle Tour and is classified as a High-End kart. It increases the duration of Jump Boost speed boosts as well as the number of points earned upon performing Jump Boosts. Unlike its Mario Kart Wii appearance, it only has Bowser's color scheme no matter which driver is using it, and the color is slightly brighter. It is the signature kart of Dixie Kong and Peach (Explorer). It uses the Monster tires from Mario Kart 8 and Mario Kart 8 Deluxe; however, the spare tire still resembles its original tires.
A brown variant called the Brown Offroader debuts in the Wild West Tour. A yellow and black variant named the Yellow Offroader debuts in the Toad vs. Toadette Tour. A red variant called the Red Offroader debuts in the 2022 Bowser Tour. A Moo Moo-themed variant called the Moo Moo Offroader debuts in the Animal Tour. All four of these variants are also classified as High-End karts.

Funky Kong's Offroader makes a cameo appearance in Super Smash Bros. for Wii U as a trophy. The trophy can be obtained when it appears at random in one of the game's single-player modes.