The P-Wing is a kart in the Mario Kart series. It is the spiritual successor to the Wild Wing from Mario Kart Wii, considering both are speedy karts built in the shape of "exotic"-type sports cars and both have wing-themes. Its namesake is referenced by wing patterns which can be seen in the front and sides of the kart, and the power-up icon appears in the front. The emblem is located on the hood. The rear wings resemble the rear fins on the Blue Falcon.

The P-Wing first appears as a kart body in Mario Kart 8 as part of the DLC pack Animal Crossing × Mario Kart 8. It boosts speed on all terrain and weight, but hinders acceleration and anti-gravity handling slightly, and  traction very heavily. When the kart enters anti-gravity, the back parts of the kart jut out over the wheels, and the power-up icon flashes gold (as in New Super Mario Bros. 2). The P-Wing has the same stats as the Mach 8, Circuit Special, Sports Coupe, Gold Standard, and B Dasher.
Its engine sound is a variation of the Circuit Special, Sports Coupe, Mach 8, and B Dasher. It has a DOHC (dual overhead camshaft) V8 engine from a Pontiac Banshee. Also like the aforementioned karts, the P-Wing has a supercharger, which is bolted over the intake manifold and can be heard while accelerating to maximum speed.
In Mario Kart 8 Deluxe, it can be randomly unlocked by collecting coins. Its stats have been altered so that it now boosts ground and anti-gravity speed and weight while hindering all other stats. The acceleration, handling, and mini-turbo stats are further worsened, and the traction stat has been slightly improved. It now shares stats only with the B Dasher and Circuit Special. The  CPU Mario and Pauline can be seen driving this kart body with the Blue Standard tires and Parafoil glider.

The P-Wing returns in Mario Kart Tour, where it is classified as a High-End kart. It uses the Blue Standard tires from Mario Kart 8 and Mario Kart 8 Deluxe. As anti-gravity does not exist in the game, the back parts of the P-Wing do not extend. The P-Wing increases the duration of Mini-Turbo speed boosts and the number of points earned for performing Mini-Turbos. The Peach Tour introduced a pink variant called the Pink Wing, which is also classified as a High-End kart. The Penguin Tour introduced another variant of the P-Wing with the High-End classification, an icy-blue variant named the Frost Wing.
Since its introduction to the game in the Ice Tour, the P-Wing has appeared in regular pipes in each tour, including the All-Clear Pipe. Starting with the Battle Tour, it is also available in the Daily Selects lineup. The table below shows this kart's special availabilities by tour.