A Paper Macho Goomba is a type of Paper Macho Soldier in Paper Mario: The Origami King. Just as Goombas attack regularly by charging at their enemies, Paper Macho Goombas charge at Mario to try to inflict damage. Similarly, Paper Macho Goombas are some of the most common Paper Macho Soldiers found and fought in the game, and are the first ones to be encountered.
Like the other Paper Macho Soldiers, a Paper Macho Goomba is invulnerable due to a sticker on its back. To fix this, Mario must get behind the Paper Macho Goomba and hammer the sticker to make it vulnerable. He is then able to hammer it whenever it gets near while avoiding its attacks.
Three Paper Macho Goombas are first seen in Whispering Woods walking away after attacking Ol' Grandsappy and turning his face into a Not-Bottomless Hole. A Paper Macho Goomba is next seen eating a house in Toad Town, creating another Not-Bottomless Hole. Mario can defeat it and explore the town, where he may find a few more Paper Macho Goombas. For example, there is a Paper Macho Goomba trying to eat a Shy Guy in the backyard of a house, and another trying to eat a Snifit atop a different house; this Snifit turns out to be a confetti salesman.

Inside Temple of Shrooms, there are mummified versions of Paper Macho Goombas known as Paper Macho Mummy Goombas. These enemies are wrapped in bandages and have no differences in battle. However, when Mario hammers the ground, a set of holes appear nearby. If Mario falls in the hole, the player must press  repeatedly for him to jump out. The holes disappear if a nearby square button is pressed. According to the Collectible Treasure featuring these particular Paper Macho Goombas, they are not actually mummies, but are simply cold, and have wrapped themselves in bandages to keep themselves warm.
In Hotfoot Crater, a horde of slightly smaller Paper Macho Goombas chase Mario, Kamek and Bowser Jr. up the volcano. Kamek creates clones of himself to hold back the horde while Mario and Bowser Jr. keep going, but gets trampled after a short while. Bowser Jr. later creates a ditch where he attempts to fight off the Paper Macho Goombas, but gets overpowered. Bowser, who is waiting near the top, then shoots a fireball to knock down a stalactite that blocks the horde, allowing Mario to escape. If the trio gets overrun by the horde, they will be shown flattened and dirty on the ground and the player receives an instant Game Over.
A Paper Macho Goomba is fought in the first stage of Scuffle Island, with the title Stomping Sentry. Defeating it is worth 100 coins, but there are now three stickers on its back that Mario must hammer before he can inflict any damage.
A Collectible Treasure of Paper Macho Goomba (No. 18) can be found in Overlook Mountain while that of Paper Macho Mummy Goomba (No. 81) can be collected from the depths of The Great Sea.