Paragoombas (originally formatted as Para-Goombas), also known as Winged Goombas and Flying Goombas, are enemies introduced in Super Mario Bros. 3. They are Goombas with small wings protruding from either their heads or their torsos. Just like Koopa Paratroopas, they jump up and down and shed their wings and change into their regular form upon being stomped on the head.

Para-Goombas are enemies in Super Mario Bros. 3. They appear in two types: Red Para-Goombas attack by following Mario and hopping low along the ground, with a larger jump every third hop, while brown ones attack by flying in the sky and dropping Micro-Goombas. The first red Para-Goomba is encountered in World 1-1, and the first brown one in World 1-2.

Ordinary Para-Goombas do not appear in Super Mario World; however, the localization team at the time gave the name to a similar but different species (Kuribon, later called Galoomba). As such, there are two equivalents of Para-Goombas in name and function: Para-Goombas (Para Kuri in Japan) utilize parachutes, and Flying Goombas (Pata Kuri in Japan) have wings.

Para-Goombas are enemies in Super Mario Land 2: 6 Golden Coins. They act like the red type in Super Mario Bros. 3, but their artwork depicts them as being brown. The Para-Goombas in Secret Course 4 fly around instead.

Paragoombas are enemies in New Super Mario Bros. Only two are encountered, both in World 2-4. They are brown but are behaviorally more similar to the red type in Super Mario Bros. 3: When Mario jumps over them, they turn behind and follow him. One stomp turns Paragoombas into regular Goombas, two stomps defeat them, and a Ground Pound takes them out instantly.

Paragoombas are enemies in New Super Mario Bros. Wii. They act just like they do in its predecessor, but they are more common. They only appear in World 7-5 and World 8-2. Like other enemies, Paragoombas can now be defeated with a Spin Jump, which does the same effect as a ground pound; it takes out a Paragoomba instantly.

Paragoombas are enemies in Super Mario Galaxy 2. Instead of hopping on the ground, Paragoombas can actually fly up and down or side to side. This is the first time that Paragoombas appear in a 3D Super Mario platformer game. There is also a giant form of Paragoombas in Supermassive Galaxy. If Mario jumps on them, they get flattened and disappear, instead of becoming a regular Goomba; the latter only happens if they are hit with a spin or Star Bit, or licked by Yoshi. They are one of the few enemies that did not appear previously in the predecessor.

Paragoombas reappear in Super Mario 3D Land where they have the same behavior as in Super Mario Galaxy 2, and, as such, can be defeated with a single stomp.

Paragoombas are enemies in New Super Mario Bros. 2. They maintain their behavior from New Super Mario Bros. Wii. The effects of a Gold Ring turn Paragoombas into gold versions of themselves, which can produce coins when hit.

Paragoombas are enemies in New Super Mario Bros. U. They act in the same manner as before. They appear in Seesaw Shrooms only.

Paragoombas are enemies in Super Mario Maker, its 3DS port, and its sequel if a player puts wings on an ordinary Goomba. It behaves like the red Paragoombas from Super Mario Bros. 3, as it follows Mario in an attempt to hurt him. When a Paragoomba is at the base of an enemy tower, it can make the whole tower hop, no matter how tall it is. A Paragoomba becomes a Big Paragoomba when given a Super Mushroom.

Paragoombas are enemies in Super Mario Odyssey. They are found in the Cap Kingdom (except for when Mario first arrives) and a secret area in the Wooded Kingdom, and can be captured by Mario with Cappy. They retain the flying left to right or in a circle behaviors, but are usually seen alone rather than in groups. Even in groups, the maximum number seen in the same circle is just two, and this only occurs in the Wooded Kingdom. The Paragoombas in the Cap Kingdom wear black top hats that Mario must knock off with a Cap Throw before he can capture them. Once captured, Mario can fly by pressing the  button, and shaking the Joy-Con allows him to fly faster. Vertically, he can only fly up to just short of two crates from the highest platform he has stood on. The maximum achievable height is remembered if Mario releases the Paragoomba then recaptures it. Horizontally, he can fly all the way to the level boundaries.

Para-Goombas appear in many episodes of The Adventures of Super Mario Bros. 3, such as "True Colors" and "Super Koopa", which feature them as underlings of King Bowser Koopa, as well as the Koopalings.

As Mario explores the Mushroom Kingdom in Double Trouble, he can encounter a swarm of Para-Goombas, which begin dropping Micro-Goombas on him. If Mario decides to try and pick the Micro-Goombas off instead of immediately running for cover, he is overwhelmed, but ultimately left alone when the Para-Goombas find him unappetizing. If Mario runs for cover in some pipes, he picks the Micro-Goombas off, and waits until the Para-Goombas get bored waiting for him to come out and leave.

Flying Goombas are enemies in Yoshi's Safari. They attack Mario and Yoshi by charging into them, inflicting a minimal amount of damage. A Flying Goomba can be defeated from one hit from the Super Scope.

In the second Yoshi's Safari volume of the Super Mario Kodansha manga, a Paragoomba alongside other enemies (now depicted with halos) are accidentally killed by Mario and his friends when they are trying to outrun a Chargin' Chuck. The souls of the enemies are absorbed into the Big Boo.

In Hotel Mario, Para-Goombas are again known as Flying Goombas. They aimlessly attempt to fly on the floors of Lemmy's High-ate Regency Hotel. However, some Flying Goombas have Banzai Bill avengers that come at Mario if he stomps the Goomba. They have a tougher variation called the Rhinestone Goomba.

Though absent from games for some time, Paragoombas make a reappearance in Paper Mario. They are enemies encountered early in the game, on Goomba Road. In Paper Mario, Paragoombas attack by swooping downward. They can only be damaged by being jumped on or by having an item used against them. When Mario jumps on them, they lose their wings and become regular Goombas. In all, they are almost exactly the same as normal Goombas.
Two new versions of the Paragoomba are introduced: a gloomy blue one called Paragloomba, and a hyperactive green one called Hyper Paragoomba.

In Paper Mario: The Thousand-Year Door, Paragoombas appear as enemies in several locations, such as Rogueport Underground, Petal Meadows, and Hooktail Castle. Just as in Paper Mario, Paragoombas are immune to grounded attacks, such as Koops' Shell Toss and Bobbery's Bomb. They cannot be targeted with the hammer, with the exception of Hammer Throw.
After Bowser enters Poshley Sanctum, he finds the replica Garnet Star, breaking it in surprise after Pennington tells him it is fake. A Paragoomba comes in through the window and tells Bowser that Mario has collected all of the Crystal Stars and can now open the Thousand-Year Door, and Bowser leaves in an attempt to get there before Mario.

In Super Paper Mario, Paragoombas appear as basic enemies in Lineland, Gloam Valley, and The Bitlands. They can be defeated by such attacks as being jumped on, or by being attacked by a Pixl. Jumping on a Paragoomba causes it to automatically lose its wings. They appear in the Flipside Pit of 100 Trials in rooms 12 and 26.

Paragoombas reappear in the Nintendo 3DS game Paper Mario: Sticker Star, with a slightly different design more closely resembling that of the Paragoombas in New Super Mario Bros. Wii. They appear in World 1's last level Goomba Fortress, and appear commonly in World 2. They have more HP and attack than their previous iterations. They still are not very powerful, but they can come in groups of two or three and aid Spinies, Paratroopas, Spikes, Pokeys and Swoops for extra help. Two new sub-species, the 5-Fold Paragoomba and Shiny Paragoomba, were also introduced. Their only method of attack is jumping on Mario. Paragoombas try to trick the player because if the player uses a hammer type sticker (except the Hurlhammer sticker), Paragoombas jump up in the air, meaning Mario's attack has been dodged. Paragoombas can be beaten with a hammer first strike without engaging in combat with them once Mario has 40 HP, and jump first strikes also work once Mario has 50 HP.
Shiny Paragoombas, Ninjis and the Wiggler Segments are the other enemies that can dodge Mario's attacks.

Paragoombas reappear in Paper Mario: Color Splash. They have the same appearance and behavior as they do in Paper Mario: Sticker Star. They can appear in battle after being called in by a Whistle Snifit. A Paragoomba Card also appears in the Sacred Forest.

Paragoombas reappear in Paper Mario: The Origami King, encountered in Overlook Mountain, Overlook Tower, Autumn Mountain, and Club Island. They, like many of the Koopa Troop, are transformed into Folded Soldiers by King Olly. In battle, Paragoombas have 15 HP and attack with Flyin' Headbonk with each flying into Mario, or Foe Throw with one dropping another enemy on Mario, which instantly defeats the enemy dropped. If they are not defeated from jumping, they lose their wings and behave like normal Goombas. Unlike in previous Paper Mario games, hammer attacks are effective against them.

In the Mario Party series, Paragoombas make their technical debut in Mario Party 5, as a machine based on one is used by the team in Quilt for Speed. Their first physical appearance in the series is Mario Party 8, where on the title screen, two are seen flying by while holding a Star Carnival banner in their mouths, and Paragoombas also appear in Test for the Best when the player accumulates 1,000 points. In Mario Party: Island Tour, a Paragoomba can be seen on the Star-Crossed Skyway board alongside Flutter and a Paratroopa on the first, second, and fourth Star Stages, where the Paragoomba hands out five Mini Stars to whoever reaches it. Paragoombas also appear in the minigame Sky'd and Seek, where Paragoombas and Paratroopas need to be counted as they enter and exit a cloud. Artwork of Paragoombas can appear in the Super Mario Party Jamboree minigame Big-Top Quiz.

Paragoomba is a playable character in both games of the Mario Baseball series: Mario Superstar Baseball, its first playable appearance in general, and Mario Super Sluggers. In both games, Paragoomba is a Speed-type character, with a good speed stat, but it is a poor batter. Paragoomba's ability is Super Jump, which allows it to make large leaps into the air in order to catch the ball. Paragoomba has good chemistry with Goomba, Koopa Paratroopa and Monty Mole.
There are a few differences with Paragoomba between the two games. In Mario Superstar Baseball, Paragoomba has the worst pitching out of the characters, its fielding is average, and it is a member of Donkey Kong's team. In Mario Super Sluggers, Paragoomba's fielding was improved, its pitching was greatly improved, and it is now a member of Wario's team. Additionally, Paragoomba was given poor chemistry with Toad, Toadsworth, and Toadette, and Paragoombas appear as spectators in the stands.

Paragoombas are enemies in Super Princess Peach. They again drop Goombettes, but this time, they completely weigh Princess Peach down. This game also introduces Paragoombas that have been altered by the Vibe Scepter, Sad Paragoombas. Red Paragoombas return, and they have their same traits as in Super Mario Bros. 3, only being able to hop. However, they can jump low and high. There is also a variety of Rage-induced Red Paragoombas – M. Red P-Goombas. Both respond the same to attacks as Paragoombas in other 2D titles, in that one stomp takes away their wings.

In Mario Golf: World Tour, Paragoomba is one of the names that can appear on the tournament scoreboard. Their only physical appearance in the Mario Golf series is Mario Golf: Super Rush. Here, various Paragoombas appear in Ridgerock Lake, where one is talking to a Chargin' Chuck, one is talking to a Koopa Troopa, and the others talk to the player's Mii freely.

Paragoombas appear as NPCs in Mario & Luigi: Paper Jam, after the Mario brothers defeat Wiggler, it faints and four Paragoombas carry it up to the sky before it transforms into a Flutter. Later in the game, only paper versions appear as enemies.

 Paragoombas appear in Mario & Luigi: Superstar Saga + Bowser's Minions, where they are enemies and allies in Minion Quest: The Search for Bowser. They first appear in the level "Winged Traitors". They are Flying troopers, and attack by swooping into enemies. Their Special Skill, Cranium Crush, involves them flying above an enemy and slamming down on them.

Paragoombas appear in Mario & Luigi: Bowser's Inside Story + Bowser Jr.'s Journey as enemies and recruitable allies in the Bowser Jr.'s Journey mode. Like other Goomba variants, Paragoombas are weak against yellow Shy Guy.

Paragoombas debut in the Dr. Mario series as assistants in Dr. Mario World. Their stage mode effect increases the player's base score for every blue virus that are eliminated. Their versus mode effect grants a chance one of the viruses that appear is transformed into a shell when all viruses in the player's play area are eliminated. The amount of points gained and the chance of an exploder appearing are increased at higher levels, starting from 50 points and 20% respectively to 200 points and 100% respectively. A Paragoomba appeared as a patient during the seventh season of Clinic Events.

While Paragoombas do not appear in Mario & Luigi: Superstar Saga, unused data and an unused sprite for Paragoombas exist in the game's files.