Pauline's lost items, also known as Pauline's lost articles, Pauline's Possessions, accessories, or prizes, are collectibles in Donkey Kong. When Donkey Kong kidnaps Pauline, she loses three of the items she has: her Parasol (also known as an umbrella), Hat, and Bag (also known as a purse or Purse). When Mario sets out to save Pauline from Donkey Kong, he can also optionally recover her lost items, which can be found throughout the game in all but the first stage. Each item is worth 300 points on level 1, 500 on level 2, and 800 in subsequent levels. The presence of these items varies among home ports; for example, the hat does not exist and is sometimes replaced by a second parasol in the Family Computer and Nintendo Entertainment System version, whereas some home computer ports published by Atari add a fourth prize called a birthday cake.
All three items are featured as optional collectible items in the 1994 Game Boy title Donkey Kong. In this game, collecting all the items can let Mario gain up to seven extra lives in a post-level minigame. In Mario vs. Donkey Kong, the presents have a similar function. In the Nelsonic Game Watch adaptation of Donkey Kong, all three items are required to progress through the stage.
Pauline's parasol is an inventory item in the Nintendo Adventure Book Doors to Doom.
Pauline's parasol, or a similar one, appears in the arcade version of Donkey Kong Jr. during the transition cutscene between the Jump Board Scene and Mario's Hideout, where the eponymous character is in pursuit of Mario's chopper via a parasol.
In Super Smash Bros. Brawl, Super Smash Bros. for Wii U, and Super Smash Bros. Ultimate, the items appear in the retro stage 75 m, which is based on the original Donkey Kong. Touching the items causes a sound effect to play and adds points to the tally at the top of the stage, and then they disappear for a while. The items do not affect gameplay.

Pauline's lost items reappear as objects that Mario can pick up in Super Mario Odyssey in the Metro Kingdom after clearing the game. The white sunhat is found on a bench close to Pauline, the pink striped parasol is found on a bench by the Outdoor Café, and the pink purse is found atop some scaffolding on the New Donk City Hall's east side. Upon Mario picking one of the items up, the points sound effect from Donkey Kong plays. The Power Moon for the sidequest A Request from the Mayor requires Mario to bring the purse to Pauline as a birthday present, while Cappy informs Mario that the hat and parasol are not appropriate gifts. The items are also referenced in the final question of her quiz, which talks about her most treasured possession, with the correct answer being her hat, which is part of her mayoral outfit and resembles the sunhat but is colored purple and replaces the flower with a bow. During the New Donk City Festival, Pauline wears a hat similar to the one from the Game Boy version, colored red.