Peach's Parasol (also called Peach's Umbrella) is what Princess Peach uses to defend herself and to glide in the air. In some games, it replaces and acts like how she uses her dress to glide. Baby Peach also uses this parasol.

Peach's parasol first appears in Super Mario RPG: Legend of the Seven Stars, where it is used to sneak out of the Mushroom Castle by floating gently out the window; Mario is later shown using this parasol when Mallow is reunited with his mother and father by shielding himself from Mallow's emotion-generated rain. In the Nintendo Switch remake, this parasol is updated to its modern design, and it is used to form a large shield barrier in the Spare-Us-All Triple Move if Mario, Peach and Geno are in the party.
Peach can equip a separate one as a weapon, simply under the name Parasol. It is colored turquoise instead of pink, and is able to be purchased from the shop in Seaside Town after Speardovich is defeated. It has an attack power of 50 points, with a deviation of five points. Functionally, it is similar to a hammer, though instead of a second strike, it opens up when a Timed Hit is performed.

In Super Smash Bros. Melee, Peach uses a white parasol in her up special move, Peach Parasol. She can glide in the air with it and hit opponents. Peach also uses her parasol in Super Smash Bros. Brawl, Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS / Wii U, and Super Smash Bros. Ultimate, with the same function and its current design, first used in Yoshi's Island DS. Peach also holds it in her up taunt and on-screen appearance as of Brawl, and in one of her victory poses in Ultimate. In the Subspace Emissary in Super Smash Bros. Brawl, Peach briefly carries the parasol around while strolling on the Halberd's deck, and later gives it to a just-restored Mr. Game & Watch shortly after scolding him.

In Super Smash Bros. Ultimate, Daisy uses a parasol identical to Peach's, albeit reused from Peach's alternate color in Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS / Wii U. She also holds it during her on-screen appearance.

 
Peach uses this parasol in Super Mario Sunshine to protect her from the sunlight, and she is also seen floating down with it in the ending, similarly to how she uses it in the Super Smash Bros. series.

Peach's parasol makes an appearance in Super Mario Galaxy 2, where if the player attempts to shoot Star Bits at or jump on the princess, she will use her parasol to guard.

Peach's parasol makes a small cameo in Super Mario 3D Land, where she whacks a Goomba Tower with it, as shown in the letter Mario gets before starting World 6. The sound effects indicate she obtains an extra life.

Peach's parasol appears in Super Mario Maker when her costume is selected. It appears while she's jumping and when performing her unique pose.

The parasol Peach uses in Super Princess Peach actually has a mind of its own. It is implied in-game that this parasol was once a human being until two sorcerers' magic transformed him. She can whack enemies with him and give him various upgrades. Perry can even eat enemies to refill the Vibe Gauge.

Baby Peach uses her parasol in Yoshi's Island DS, where it is her special move. Yoshi can improve his flutter jump with it, and makes it easy to ride winds. In later games, the parasol has retained its design from this game.

The parasol appears in Super Paper Mario, where Peach can use it to float and defend herself while crouching.

In Paper Mario: Color Splash, Peach can be seen holding the parasol when she first arrives at Port Prisma, along with in official artwork for the game. In the digital manual, when asked where she keeps the parasol, Peach claims that it is none of the viewer's business.

 
The parasol appears in Mario Kart 7, Mario Kart 8, Mario Kart 8 Deluxe and Mario Kart Tour, where it is one of the available gliders.

In Mario & Luigi: Dream Team, the parasol makes a cameo in the credits.

In Mario Golf: World Tour, Peach wields her parasol in her victory animation whenever she gets a Birdie or an Eagle. It is implied to be magical, as after waving her parasol around for a bit, she then swings it and has her miniskirt change into her trademark dress.

In Mario + Rabbids Kingdom Battle, after the Icicle Golem freezes Mario's team, Peach uses the parasol to glide through the air to save them.

In Luigi's Mansion 3, Peach's parasol appears as a damaged object in Room 501.

In the opening cutscene for Princess Peach: Showtime!, Peach is seen holding her parasol.

While Peach's Parasol does not at all appear in The Super Mario Bros. Movie, Peach is shown holding it in a Jakks Pacific action figureMedia:TSMBM Jakks Pacific figurines.jpg.