The Peach Parasol is a glider from the Mario Kart series. As its name states, it is a pink umbrella which has its design inspired by Princess Peach. It offers a small acceleration boost, while hindering the weight stat. Like all the other gliders, it allows karts to go airborne for a brief time period. However, it is the slowest glider in the game, hindering the air speed stat heavily.

The Peach Parasol makes its first appearance in Mario Kart 7. Like the Birthday Girl, its color only changes when it is used by Daisy, Rosalina and Honey Queen. All the other characters use Peach's personal pink parasol. It gives a small boost to acceleration but makes the kart slightly lighter. It has the same stats as the Flower Glider. Unlike the Birthday Girl, male or indeterminate-gender computer racers can use this glider.

The Peach Parasol returns in Mario Kart 8 and Mario Kart 8 Deluxe, and is now less transparent and adorned with a royal pattern on the white line and the shaft is now brown instead of tan. The same color changes apply like the previous game, but only when using Daisy, Rosalina, Baby Daisy, Baby Rosalina, Wiggler, Kamek and Funky Kong. Unusually, Wiggler shares Daisy/Baby Daisy's Peach Parasol color scheme, while Kamek and Funky Kong share Rosalina/Baby Rosalina's color scheme; despite Wiggler, Kamek, and Funky Kong not being female characters. In Mario Kart 8, the glider has the same stats as it does in Mario Kart 7, and it shares its stats with the Cloud Glider, Parachute, Parafoil, Bowser Kite, MKTV Parafoil and Hylian Kite.
In Mario Kart 8 Deluxe, CPU Peach and Cat Peach use this glider with the Prancer kart body. Additionally, its stats have changed somewhat: it now only shares its stats with the Parafoil, MKTV Parafoil and Bowser Kite.

The Peach Parasol returns in Mario Kart Tour, where it takes on its Mario Kart 8 and Mario Kart 8 Deluxe appearance and is classified as a Super glider. Unlike the previous games, it only uses the default pink color scheme, no matter which racer is using it. The Peach Parasol provides better chances of getting Red Shells from Item Boxes and increases the number of points earned for hitting other drivers with Red Shells. 
An icy blue and purple variant called the Blizzard Parasol was introduced in the Ice Tour, a variant with a stained glass rose pattern called the Rose Parasol was introduced in the Peach vs. Daisy Tour, an orange and black variant called the Magic Parasol was introduced in the 2021 Halloween Tour, and a platinum and gold variant called the Glittering Parasol was introduced in the Singapore Tour. All four variants are classified as High-End gliders.