Peach's Room is an area of Peach's Castle that appears in Super Mario 64 and Super Mario 64 DS, as well as several role-playing games in the Super Mario franchise.

In Super Mario RPG: Legend of the Seven Stars and its remake, Peach's Room (originally known as Toadstool's room) is staffed by Granny. It features a couple of candelabras at the entrance, a blue bed (pink in the remake), a lit fireplace, and a blue chair beside the fireplace. If Mario enters the room when he first arrives at the castle, he can pick up Peach's ??? between the fireplace and the chair. Granny immediately takes the item away from him, but she gives him a Mushroom in return. When the castle is attacked by Shymores, Peach's Room becomes a shelter for some of the Toads. A Save Block also appears in the room, and Granny can fully heal Mario and Mallow if she is talked to (though she prevents them from sleeping in the bed).

The Princess's room, also titled the Princess's Tower, is a location in Super Mario 64 and Super Mario 64 DS. It is behind the ★ door marked with a "1" on the mezzanine. In the original version, the room is small, having only three stained glass windows with images of Princess Peach on them, and her note on the wall telling Mario about secret paths that Bowser has not found. Jumping into the window on the right leads to The Princess's Secret Slide. In the DS remake, the princess's room, also referred to as the character room, is much larger, having been repurposed to contain a switching room for each unlockable playable character. On the opposite end from the entrance is a door leading to the Rec Room. There are now only two stained glass windows. The original iteration of the princess's room still exists in the remake, in a mostly functional state, and can even be glimpsed when its ★ door is opened, but the game warps the player to the updated room, which is now programmed to be loaded as a separate map rather than being part of the foyer's map geometry like in the original.
In Super Mario 64 DS, there is also a small room behind both the character room and the Rec Room with a pink couch with golden metal, a window view, and a painting of Mario that leads to the level Goomboss Battle. The room resembles a bedroom but does not have a proper bed in it.

Princess Peach's room reappears in Paper Mario, containing many more personal amenities, including several paintings, a row of pink dresses, a pink bed with a curtain, and a balcony. During the party, a Toad guards her room, preventing anybody from entering it. However, if Mario keeps asking to enter, he eventually gives up and allows Mario inside. When the castle is taken over by Bowser, Princess Peach is kept captive in her room, and the door is constantly guarded. The room has a secret passage through the fireplace, which is accessed by flipping a switch hidden by a nearby painting. The passage connects directly to a room that Bowser is using for himself. Throughout the events of the game, Peach uses the passage to sneak out of the room and explore the castle. If she is ever caught by a Koopatrol or a Hammer Bro, she is immediately brought back to her room. When Mario returns near the end of the game, it, like the rest of Peach's Castle, is unguarded, so he can enter the room without issue.

Princess Peach's room later appears in Mario & Luigi: Partners in Time. Princess Shroob, disguised as Princess Peach, was brought to the room when Mario, Luigi, and their baby counterparts found her with a Shroob mushroom covering her face. Bowser, also believing her to be Peach, kidnaps her before falling into a time hole that leads to Thwomp Volcano. Between Princess Shroob's and Bowser's arrivals, the room is closed. Afterwards, Baby Peach stays in the room, under Toadsworth and Toadsworth the Younger's vision.

Princess Peach's room becomes accessible in Mario & Luigi: Bowser's Inside Story and its remake once the player visits Peach's Castle for the second time in the game, after Fawful has taken over it. Only Bowser can get in, as it requires the use of the Spike Ball move to climb a wall that leads to the room. Like the rest of the castle, it has been damaged and there are green pipes over the ceiling.