Piccolo is a partner in Super Paper Mario. One of the twelve original Pixls created by the Ancients, she is also one of the three optional Pixls in the game, requiring a series of tasks available starting from mid-Chapter 5 to get her as a team member. She is named after the instrument piccolo for her music-based power, which manifests as a short tune when the player presses  on the Wii Remote. This tune can cure Mario and the team from any curses placed upon them by Cursyas, as well as put the Underchomp to sleep, reminiscent of the way in which Orpheus charms Cerberus, the three headed dog which the Underchomp is based on, with music. In addition, Piccolo can make blocks with her emblem disappear, usually revealing treasure chests, such as the blocks in the third floor Flipside and Flopside outskirts, which contain a Merlee and Nolrem Catch Card, respectively.
When Piccolo is equipped, different music will play depending on which character is out, and the tune she plays to heal them also varies: Mario's is a quirky trumpet-lead jingle; Peach's is a soothing melody featuring harp, glockenspiel and violin; Bowser's is a heavy metal tune; and Luigi's is a jazz tune. Piccolo's music is also affected by the place the player plays the song in. Finally, she causes the player characters' jumping and Bowser's Fire Breath to make their original Super Mario Bros. sound effects, while removing their voices.
The errands to run to earn Piccolo are:

The player must go to Merlee and talk to her on her side of the counter.
The player must go to Merluvlee and talk to her on her side of the counter.
The player must go to Bestovius.
The player must go to Old Man Watchitt.
The player must go to Merlumina.
The player must give the Autograph to Watchitt.
The player must give the You-Know-What to Bestovius.
The player must give the Training Machine to Merluvlee.
The player must give the Crystal Ball to Merlee. In exchange for the Crystal Ball, she gives the player a Random House Key.
The player must take the key to the first floor of Flopside and look for the abandoned house with the locked door near the card shop. Using the key to open the door, the player must open the big chest inside to get Piccolo on their team.