Pink Gold Peach is a character who debuted in Mario Kart 8, where she appears as an unlockable playable character. She is a gold version of Princess Peach in the same manner as how Metal Mario is a metallic version of Mario and Gold Mario being a golden version of Mario. Her body is made of pink gold, and her earrings, brooch, and crown jewels are made of diamonds.
According to Kosuke Yabuki, Pink Gold Peach was created to satisfy the need of a female medium-sized heavyweight driver in the game's roster; he contrasts her with Rosalina, who in this game is also a heavyweight but is large in size. Hideki Konno, the game's producer, states that her pink gold constitution was originally suggested by a female staff member of the game's development team.

In Mario Kart 8, Pink Gold Peach is an unlockable heavyweight character, which means that she has better speed and weight than most other racers. She, alongside Baby Rosalina, are characters introduced in Mario Kart 8 that are also introduced to the overall Super Mario franchise. Alongside Metal Mario, Pink Gold Peach is one of the heaviest racers in the game, although she has less speed than Wiggler, Bowser, Wario, Morton Koopa Jr., the large-sized Miis, and Dry Bowser, which boosts her handling; Pink Gold Peach's speed and handling are tied with Rosalina, Donkey Kong, Waluigi, Roy Koopa, and Link. Also, Pink Gold Peach's voice is filtered, similar to how Metal Mario's voice is filtered. Like her normal entity, she wears a biker outfit while riding on Bikes and ATVs. Her kart symbol is Princess Peach's crown with hexagonal gems and an overall pink color.
Like Metal Mario, Pink Gold Peach uses the body frame size of the middleweight racers, despite being a heavyweight, making her slightly harder to hit compared to other heavyweights.
Nin★Mizuho uses Pink Gold Peach as the staff ghost for Rainbow Road.
Pink Gold Peach returns in Mario Kart 8 Deluxe for the Nintendo Switch, as the game is a remastered port of Mario Kart 8. She is now available from the start. As of Version 2.2.0, Pink Gold Peach won't be selected as a CPU character if Peach or Cat Peach are present in the race.

In Mario Kart Tour, Pink Gold Peach appears as one of the drivers released alongside the  2019 Winter Tour. She is a High-End driver, and her special skill is the Coin Box. She is the first veteran racer to be made available as a spotlight character. A kart and a glider based on her (the Rose Queen and Pink Gold Paper Glider respectively) were added in the Flower Tour, with both also being High-End units. Starting with the Peach Tour, Pink Gold Peach gained her own self-named cup and is available permanently in regular pipes.

Pink Gold Peach is an unlockable character in Mario Sports Superstars. She is one of two unlockable characters, the other one being Metal Mario. Pink Gold Peach is classified as a Power character. In tennis, this causes her shots and serves to be more powerful and travel quickly across the court. In golf, Pink Gold Peach's default drive is 222 yards, and her shots travel straight and at a medium-high height. Excluding her appearance as a badge in Nintendo Badge Arcade, this marks her first appearance in a game released for a handheld console. She is unlocked after the player completes Ring Challenge in Training Mode on Hard difficulty, or if the player taps in a corresponding Pink Gold Peach amiibo card. However, this will only unlock Pink Gold Peach in the sport where this criteria has been met; in order to unlock her fully, the criteria must be completed in all five sports (tennis, golf, baseball, soccer, and horse racing). In this game, Pink Gold Peach also uses some voice clips of Jen Taylor reused from Mario Power Tennis, though filtered. Pink Gold Peach's animations are also identical to Peach's in this game.

Pink Gold Peach is a Shield-type spirit alongside the Badwagon in Super Smash Bros. Ultimate. It depicts the solo artwork of her from Mario Kart 8. Her spirit is an Ace-class primary spirit with two support slots, and it increases the player's running speed when used.

As her name suggests, Pink Gold Peach's body frame is composed mostly of a metallic rose gold color. The panniers, collar, and frills of her dress are a slightly darker, more old rose color. The only non-metallic components of her design are her brooch, her earrings, and her crown's jewels; these are all a nearly clear platinum color, and are faceted gems, unlike Peach's. This aspect is also reflected in her emblem. She wears a biker suit while operating bikes and ATVs, while the gloves, boots, and other known equipment serve in a darker old rose color.
In Mario Sports Superstars, Pink Gold Peach wears sports attire just like her original form counterpart does. For golf and tennis, she wears a sleeveless mini-dress. For baseball, soccer, and horseback, she wears a two-piece uniform, consisting of a sleeveless top and shorts.