Pionpi, also known as Pinopi, are undead creatures based on jiangshi, a mythical vampire and zombie-like creature from Chinese folklore, and enemies introduced in Super Mario Land. Similarly to Dry Bones from Super Mario Bros. 3, they can resurrect shortly after being knocked out.

In the game Super Mario Land, Pionpis are encountered in the Chai Kingdom, where they constantly try to jump on Mario, and some Pionpis appear from the air. Pionpis can be temporarily stunned by being jumped on, giving 800 points to the player. To actually destroy them, Mario must either lure them off the level, shoot them with two Superballs, or touch them while invincible. They act essentially as a faster, harder version of the Fly and Kumo found earlier in the game.

In the Game Boy comics published by Valiant Comics, a Pionpi is shown to be Tatanga's second-in-command and frequently rides around on a Yurarin Boo. In the issue "Team Play", this Pionpi leads Tatanga's invasion of the Great Wall of China and is also the only one of Tatanga's Elite Squadron to protest Herman Smirch's joining of Tatanga's forces.

In the Super Mario Land manga from the KC Deluxe series, Pionpi are depicted similar to zombies in an apocalypse. A trio of Pionpi attacks Mario and Mecha Kuribō (who is Princess Peach in disguise) as they arrive in Chai Kingdom. Mario shoots them down with a Superball, but they quickly rise back up. Running from them, Mario and Mecha Kuribō run into Nankin, who tells them to hide in a bush. The three Pionpi jump over the bush and right into a pit. Nankin explains that Tatanga cursed the kingdom's citizens, turning them into Pionpi, except for the local temple's residents, protected by a magic seal that also functions as a door latch. While Mario takes a rest in the temple, waiting for Mecha Kuribō to make a new seal for him, a Goombo manages to trick Nankin-kun into opening the door and destroys the temple's seal, letting the Pionpi swarm the temple. The residents are bitten by the Pionpi and turned into zombies, followed by Princess Peach right after she finishes the seal, which Mario uses to keep the Pionpi at bay while he takes the Sky Pop at the airport. Once Tatanga is defeated, all of the transformed Pionpi are immediately restored to normal.
In the Super Mario Land 4 manga, a Pionpi is the third challenger in the Qix storyline. It bites Peach to make her his ally and the two of them take the role of the two Qix, with Qix Daiō even strengthening the Pionpi to ease its work, but it is eventually defeated with a Qix Split and disappears, freeing Peach from its control.