Piranha Plants (also known as Piranha Flowers and Piranhas and misspelled as pirana plants in early manuals and Pirahna Flower) are enemies introduced in Super Mario Bros. They are large, carnivorous plants based on Venus flytraps. The head of a Piranha Plant is most commonly either red or green with multiple other colors. Piranha Plants originally appeared only in pipes, emerging from them with a biting animation, but have also been encountered outside of them since. Piranha Plants can talk in some appearances. Certain Piranha Plants have animal-like bodies, most noticeably their leader Petey Piranha, making them capable of walking.

Piranha Plants appear in Super Mario Bros. They are first encountered in World 1-2. Piranha were supposed to appear in every vertical pipe beyond the first level, but a glitch prevents them from appearing in every one, like in World 8-4, where the water tiles overlap the Piranha Plant in the original version only; if the Piranha Plant had been visible, the underwater palette would have rendered it gray. Piranha Plants do not emerge from pipes if the player character stands either adjacent to or on top of them, not unlike Turtle Cannons. Piranha Plants can be defeated only from either a fireball or the effects of a Starman. Piranha Plants do not flip upside-down when defeated, unlike other enemies except Buzzy Beetles. Piranha Plants emerge from pipes in Warp Zones but vanish the instant that "WELCOME TO WARP ZONE!" appears onscreen. Piranha Plants emerge from the last pipe at the end of every level taking place mostly underground or underwater.

Piranha Plants return in Super Mario Bros.: The Lost Levels. The normal type is encountered in the first three worlds, but levels from World 4-1 onward replace them with the red type. The red variation is faster and still emerges from its pipe if the player character stands by it, but not if they are on top. There are Piranha Plants that emerge from upside-down pipes, and they are first encountered in World 5-1. There are Piranha Plants encountered underwater in World 9-1 and World 9-2. Piranha Plants in All Night Nippon: Super Mario Bros. were cosmetically altered to become Pakkun Okapī.

Piranha Plants appear in Super Mario Bros. 3. They return in red and green varieties, but the only difference is that red Piranha Plants have an additional layer of leaves. Piranha Plants behave similarly as before, though Koopa shells, hammers, and the tail of Raccoon Mario or Tanooki Mario are additional ways to defeat them. A few variants make their first appearance, including Venus Fire Traps, Piranhacus Giganticus, Ptooies, Walking Piranhas, and Munchers. The Piranha Plants that move in and out of upside-down pipes are named Hanging Piranha Plant. Some red Piranha Plants emerge from horizontal pipes but have only one set of leaves. The king of Pipe Land is transformed into a Piranha Plant in the Family Computer and Nintendo Entertainment System version only. An upside-down variant of the Piranha Plant with a red head and one layer of green leaves appears in the World-e levels Piped Full of Plants and Treacherous Halls in Super Mario Advance 4: Super Mario Bros. 3.

Pakkun Flowers, or Pakkun, return in Super Mario Land. Upside Down (Headstand) Pakkun, also named Reverse Pakkun or Upside-down Piranha Plant, which gives 400 points when defeated. The digital manual of the Virtual Console port rectifies their name to Piranha Plants.

Piranha Plants return in Super Mario World. From this game forward, red has become the standard color of all Piranha Plants, and the green ones appear only at the end of a growing beanstalk. Besides Munchers returning, another variant was added, Jumping Piranha Plant, which are significantly more common. The regular Piranha Plant, also known as Piranha in a Pipe, appears only in Vanilla Dome 3, where all eight emerge from upside-down pipes. Unlike before, Piranha Plants retreat into their pipe whenever the player character is nearby. Piranha Plants are defeated from either a fireball, a shell, being hit by a cape, or being eaten by Yoshi.

An upward-facing Piranha Plant was scrapped during development. The graphics of the right-side-up stem were overwritten by an upside-down red Cheep Cheep.

Piranha Plants return in Super Mario Land 2: 6 Golden Coins. They are no different from before. Besides the returning Venus Fire Traps, the game adds Piranha Plant statues, which sometimes attack by shooting balls of fire.

Piranha Plants are enemies in Super Mario 64 and Super Mario 64 DS. They are depicted with green lips in the original version, later changed to white in remakes. Piranha Plants appear only in Whomp's Fortress, as well as in Goomboss Battle and Sunshine Isles in the remake. Three Piranha Plants are included in an additional area of Whomp's Fortress in the remake, but they are different in that they emerge from the grass when approached. Piranha Plants have a sleepy nature, which is why they are always found asleep, but a lullaby plays during this. When a Piranha Plant is either touched or approached quickly by the player character, it wakes up and starts to bite in the direction of the player character, though they stay asleep if approached quickly. Piranha Plants take away three health points if they bite the player character, or four if he is without his cap (excluding Yoshi in the remake). Besides Piranha Plants, there are Venus Fire Traps, including small and large versions encountered mainly in Tiny-Huge Island. Piranha Plants can be defeated mainly from being punched or ground-pounded while asleep, or from one of Yoshi's Eggs in the remake. A defeated Piranha Plant shrinks as pink bubbles fly out from its body, and releases a Blue Coin as a spoil.

Piranha Plants, also called Pakkun Flowers, appear in Super Mario Sunshine. They are depicted after their appearance from Super Mario 64, since their lips are green, but they lack teeth. Piranha Plants are encountered only in Bianco Hills. They pop out of the ground and spit black, white-spotted projectiles to attack Mario. A Piranha Plant is defeated if enough water from FLUDD is sprayed into its body until it blows up. Various Piranha Plant members make their debut, including the recurring mini-boss Proto Piranha, the boss and future recurring character Petey Piranha, and enemies named Piranhabons.

Piranha Plants appear in New Super Mario Bros. They retain their attack pattern introduced in Super Mario Bros., but with an added chomping sound effect. Some Piranha Plants appear in the ground, as well as on conveyor belts, which move them around. Two Piranha Plant varieties return, including Venus Fire Traps and Super Piranha Plants.

Piranha Plants return in Super Mario Galaxy. They attack by trying to bite the player character. A Piranha Plant is defeated from either a stomp, a spin, or being touched by Rainbow Mario. It is stunned temporarily if hit by a Star Bit. Defeating some Piranha Plants is required so that a Sproutle Vine can grow in their place. The game adds Spiny Piranha Plants, a large, purple variant that slams its head to attack, and the boss Dino Piranha, as well as a black-colored variant of it. 

Piranha Plants return in New Super Mario Bros. Wii. They no longer have a chomping sound effect, unlike New Super Mario Bros. Piranha Plants are defeated from an Ice Ball, though Piranha Plants encased in ice cannot be picked up. Piranha Plants cannot hurt a Yoshi if jumped on. Besides the returning Venus Fire Traps, Super Piranha Plants, Munchers, and Big Fire Piranhas, the game gives Piranha Plants another two variants, Stalking Piranha Plants and River Piranha Plants.

Piranha Plants appear in Super Mario Galaxy 2. They behave identically as in Super Mario Galaxy. Besides the returning Super Piranha Plant and Spiny Piranha Plant, the latter receives a variant named Prickly Piranha Plant. Both Dino Piranhas also return, and similar boss to them is introduced, Peewee Piranha.

Piranha Plants return in Super Mario 3D Land. They are modeled after their appearance in Super Mario Galaxy and its sequel. Besides the returning Fire Piranha Plants, the game introduces an ink-spitting variety named Inky Piranha Plants.

Piranha Plants return in New Super Mario Bros. 2. They behave like in New Super Mario Bros. Wii. Two Piranha Plant varieties were introduced, Bone Piranha Plants and Gold Piranha Plants, with Piranha Plants becoming the latter while a Gold Ring is in effect.

Piranha Plants return in New Super Mario Bros. U. They are mostly the same, though there are Piranha Plants that hatch from Piranha Pods thrown by Lakitus in Blooming Lakitus.

Piranha Plants return in Super Mario 3D World and Super Mario 3D World + Bowser's Fury. They are functionally similar to their behavior introduced in Super Mario Galaxy. Besides the returning Mega Piranha Plants, the game introduces Potted Piranha Plants, which can be carried around to eat enemies; Piranha Creeper, which have a long spiky stem; and cat variations in Bowser's Fury only.

Piranha Plants are course elements in Super Mario Maker, its port, and Super Mario Maker 2. Piranha Plants are in every style except Super Mario World, which has Jumping Piranha Plants instead. Several Piranha Plant variations return, including Big Piranha Plants, Fire Piranha Plants, Jumping Piranha Plants, Big Venus Fire Traps, Munchers, as well as Piranha Creepers in Super Mario Maker 2 only. Piranha Plants can be placed on the ground and do not move around. Super Mario Maker 2 adds the ability to place Piranha Plants upside-down on ceilings, and in the game's added Super Mario 3D World style, Piranha Plants attack by lunging and can be defeated from a stomp, unlike in the other game styles. Super Mario Maker 2 also includes Piranha Plants in a Ninji Speedruns course called Yoshi's Piranha Plant Picnic, where the goal is for Yoshi to swallow twenty-five.

Piranha Plants are enemies in Super Mario Run. They emerge from pipes, retaining their usual biting attack, but not if the player character is standing nearby.

Piranha Plants are a species in Super Mario Odyssey. They are used as flowers in Bowser and Princess Peach's marriage, as well as decorations on Bowser's ship in the opening scene. While Piranha Plants do not appear as enemies, Fire Piranha Plants retain this role, and the game introduces the Poison Piranha Plant variety.

Piranha Plants return in Super Mario Bros. Wonder. Besides the returning Fire Piranha Plants, Big Piranha Plants, Big Fire Piranha Plants, Bone Piranha Plants, Munchers, and Nipper Plants, the game introduces additional Piranha Plant varieties: Trottin' Piranha Plants, which can leave their pipes and move around; Melon Piranha Plants, which resemble watermelons and spit seeds; Wonder Packun, black Piranha Plants with long stalks that appear after Bowser collects the Wonder Flower at the start of the game; Cloud Piranhas, dark Piranha Plants made of smoke that protect Bowser's Castle; and Note Piranha Plants (and their larger variants), fiery Piranha Plants resembling music notes that function as projectiles.

Pirhana Plants[sic] are antagonists in The Super Mario Bros. Super Show! They are depicted as being black with green lips and pink spots. Pirhana Plants can spit fire, a trait possibility inherited by Pansers.

A green Piranha Plant appears in the episode "Sneaky Lying Cheating Giant Ninja Koopas" of The Adventures of Super Mario Bros. 3. It bites Raccoon Mario after he is knocked unconscious by Big Mouth's reptile breath tornado move, but misses on the second attempt. Both Ptooies and Venus Fire Traps also appear, more commonly than Piranha Plants.

A friendly pirhana plant[sic] named Mama Fireplant appears in the episode "Fire Sale" of the Super Mario World television series. The protagonists try to rescue her from Kootie Pie in a frozen cavern. Piranha plants are the replacement for the crops stolen by Cheatsy and the gophers in "Gopher Bash," and one piranha plants has hair or spike-like protrusions on its head. A piranha plant in "A Little Learning" is put in Oogtar's "eggabegga" project by Hip and Hop, attempting to sabotage it, which backfires when King Koopa when Oogtar feed it fertilizer inadvertently.

Piranha Plants appear occasionally in the Nintendo Comics System. They are depicted with primarily dark green heads atop light green stems. Some Piranha Plants have a pair of eyes, while female Piranha Plants have faces the same color as their stems and dark green lips, while the dark green and spotted portion is made from leaves and acts as "hair." In Piranha-Round Sue, several Piranha Plants, led by Piranha Sue, attempt to steal the Green Gecko Gem and a magic wand in order to depose Bowser, due to several tight restrictions he had placed upon them. In The Revenge of Pipe Ooze! a Piranha Plant gets strangled by Bowser after he calls Lemmy an idiot, while two female Piranha Plants appear as fans of Dirk Drain-Head, of whom Mario was cosplaying as.

A patch of Piranha Plants in Double Trouble trap Toad after he is led astray by a disguised Koopa on his way back to the Mushroom Palace. After hearing Toad's yells for help, Mario rushes into the patch to rescue him, and tries to fight off a particularly large Piranha Plant by throwing a rock, which the plant bats aside with a stick, giving its brethren the idea of grabbing some clubs to use as weapons as well. Depending on how the accompanying puzzle is solved, the plants either fight each other after Mario tricks one into bludgeoning another, or they succeed in knocking Mario out with a blow to the head.
A patch of Piranha Plants appear near the Mushroom Palace in Leaping Lizards, with Morton, Luigi and Toad navigate through them on the way to Water Land. Some Piranha Plants in Koopa Capers are spotted by Luigi amongst several monsters in Wendy O. Koopa's secret camp in the Magma Pits.
A patch of Piranha Plants appear in Pipe Down!, having to be run through by Mario and Luigi if they decide to go after Princess Toadstool. Four Piranha Plants (named Ashby, Justin, Scott and Todd respectively) are later revealed to have been coerced by Ludwig von Koopa to becoming the string quartet in a ballet that Toadstool is forced to star in. If the Piranha Plants attack the Mario Bros. and the princess, they are defeated quickly by Luigi knocking their pots over. One of the bad endings has two Piranha Plants eat Mario and Luigi if enter the leftmost pipe in a chamber.
A hungry, young Piranha Plant appears in Flown the Koopa, where Mario pulls the Mushroom King away it while avoiding Dino Rhinos in a forest.
Piranha Plants and some traffic officers switch minds in Brain Drain, due to the Synapse Switcher, causing havoc on the Fungus Freeway.

Piranha Plants are objects in Yoshi. They are one of six to fall onto the playing field. Piranha Plants are depicted similarly to Jumping Piranha Plants from Super Mario World.

Piranha Plants are obstacles in Super Mario Kart. They are encountered in Choco Island 1 and Choco Island 2. Piranha Plants are offroad and cause whoever drives into them to spin out.

Piranha Plants return in Mario Kart 64. They are placed in the ground and have lips that of a yellowish tan color. Piranha Plants are encountered in Mario Raceway and Royal Raceway. They are placed offroad, appearing to move their lips up and down in the manner of a sucking motion.

Piranha Plants return in Mario Kart: Super Circuit. They are encountered in Yoshi Desert. A Piranha Plant emerges from a quicksand pit if a player character drives in, chewing on them shortly before spitting them out.

Piranha Plants return in Mario Kart: Double Dash!!. They are encountered in Mario Circuit and Yoshi Circuit. Piranha Plant are in pipes and try to bite approaching drivers, flipping them over when hit. The chomping sound effect of Piranha Plants is a sped up variation of one of Petey Piranha's sound clips, and Piranha Plants use one of his exact voice clips when hit. Piranha Plants are stunned temporarily if hit by either a Green Shell, a Red Shell, a Bowser Shell, or a character under the invincibility effects of a Star. Besides Piranha Plants, the game introduces Pit Plants, which are obstacles in Dry Dry Desert, and adds Petey Piranha as a playable character.

Piranha Plant is an item in both Mario Kart Arcade GP and Mario Kart Arcade GP 2. It has a bright pink look. The Piranha Plant is one of the Special Items used by Princess Peach. It eats the items of opponents after being summoned. Piranha Plants also appear as obstacles in Mario Beach and DK Jungle, where they act the same as they do in Mario Kart: Double Dash!! Smaller Piranha Plants also appear on the bottom of archways in the Bowser Cup in red and green colors, though they merely observe.

Piranha Plants are obstacles in Mario Kart DS. They are encountered in Mario Circuit, SNES Choco Island 2, and GCN Yoshi Circuit. Piranha Plants function the way they do in Super Mario Kart. Fire Piranha Plants are also obstacles in the former course.

Piranha Plants are obstacles in Mario Kart Wii. They are encountered in N64 Mario Raceway and GCN Mario Circuit. Piranha Plants are the basis of one of the karts, Piranha Prowler, but the petals and colored lips suggest closer inspiration from Petey Piranha.

Piranha Plants are obstacles in Mario Kart 7. They are encountered in Music Park and Piranha Plant Slide. There are two giant Piranha Plants in both courses. The Piranha Plants in Music Park move to the beat of the background music, bite player characters if they drive into the spotlight in front of them, and switch between the right and left sides at times. The Piranha Plants of Piranha Plant Slide are positioned in the center, changing which direction they face periodically.

Piranha Plants are obstacles in Mario Kart 8 and Mario Kart 8 Deluxe. They are encountered both in pipes and on land. The Piranha Plants in pipes appear in Sweet Sweet Canyon, Mario Circuit, GCN Yoshi Circuit, 3DS Piranha Plant Slide, and 3DS Music Park; the first three courses give them similar behavior as in Mario Kart: Double Dash!!, but Piranha Plants in the returning Mario Kart 7 courses retain their behavior from said game. The Piranha Plants on land are in N64 Royal Raceway, as well as Tour Bangkok Rush and  DS Mario Circuit in Mario Kart 8 Deluxe – Booster Course Pass. Piranha Plants are in the background of Shy Guy Falls, 3DS Piranha Plant Slide, and Piranha Plant Cove. The Booster Course Pass adds Piranha Plants that are not in pipes but behave like the counterparts otherwise, including in Tour Amsterdam Drift, Piranha Plant Cove, and Tour Madrid Drive. A Piranha Plant in the Booster Course Pass course Yoshi's Island is attached to the underside of the tree trunk arch before the water section and uses identical sound effects as in Super Mario World 2: Yoshi's Island.
Other Piranha Plant varieties and relatives appear. The potted Piranha Plant from Super Mario 3D World is one of the items, but other than them, other Piranha Plant varieties are featured as obstacles: Raving Piranha Plants appear in Electrodome; a Bone Piranha Plant appears in Bone-Dry Dunes; and Deku Babas are cosmetic replacements of Piranha Plants in Hyrule Circuit. The Booster Course Pass includes Big Piranha Plants in Tour Paris Promenade and DS Peach Gardens, Ptooies in GBA Riverside Park, Fire Piranha Plants in DS Mario Circuit, and Mecha Piranha Plants in GCN Waluigi Stadium. Wooden cutouts of Piranha Plants are in Tour Paris Promenade, Ninja Hideaway and Wii Daisy Circuit.

Piranha Plants are obstacles in Mario Kart Tour. They appear in both their lunging and passive variants. They are found in many courses in the game, especially in T variants of courses. They act the same as in Super Mario Kart and Mario Kart 7. Hitting Piranha Plants with the use of an item or while invincible grants the player some bonus points. There are also wooden cutouts of Piranha Plants, which are used to block certain shortcuts. A new glider called the Piranha Plant Parafoil is also introduced. The Piranha Plant Tour is themed around Piranha Plants, with Petey Piranha and Piranha Plant Slide returning in this tour. This game also introduces two new courses themed around Piranha Plants, called Piranha Plant Cove and Piranha Plant Pipeline respectively. Inky Piranha Plants also make their debut in this game, appearing in the course Bangkok Rush.
Below are two lists of courses in Mario Kart Tour that feature Piranha Plants: one list is for the lunging type, and the other for the passive type. (Select "show" to reveal a list.)

Piranha Plants are obstacles in Mario Kart Live: Home Circuit. They are encountered in Piranha Paradise. Piranha Plants appear on gates sometimes, snapping at player characters driving by and temporarily holding any caught player character holding them in their mouths for some time if caught.

Piranha Plants are enemies in Wario Land: Super Mario Land 3. Piranha Plants are encountered throughout Parsley Woods. They behave like Munchers, being stationary, invincible enemies that occupy certain areas. Piranha Plants are indestructible and can defeat Wario instantly by touching him.
Although never referred to with their English names in Wario Land-related material, these enemies are labeled as "Pakkun Flower" (パックンフラワー) on page 6 of the KC Deluxe manga, volume 24, which is the Japanese name for Piranha Plants. Nintendo Power instead gives the uncapitalized name "piranha plant" to the Munchers on Rice Beach.

Piranha Plants make a cameo in Mario's FUNdamentals. They are featured on a suit of playing cards in Go Fish.

Wild Piranhas, also named Wild Piranha Plants, Red Piranhas, Piranha Plants, or simply Piranhas, or Red Flowers, are enemies in Super Mario World 2: Yoshi's Island and its remake. Wild Piranhas are completely different than in the Super Mario series: All Wild Piranhas are planted in the ground, appearing very miniaturized by default, but it both increases in size and lunges at a Yoshi when approached. A Wild Piranha causes a Yoshi to lose Baby Mario and his eggs if it catches Yoshi into its mouth, though spits him out after a few seconds. Wild Piranhas are defeated only from being hit by an egg or a different projectile; when defeated, a Wild Piranha's head flips, shrinks, and disappears. Besides Nipper Plants returning, the game introduces the Hootie the Blue Fish and Wild Ptooie Piranha varieties One of the bosses is a giant Wild Piranha named Naval Piranha. Piranha Plants have traits similar to Blow Hards, but the latter is defined as a Pokey variant.

Piranha Plants are enemies in Yoshi's Island DS. They behave identically as in Super Mario World 2: Yoshi's Island. Besides the returning Wild Ptooie Piranhas, Nipper Plants and Nipper Spores, a few Piranha Plant varieties were added, including Polterpiranhas, Bungee Piranhas and Nipper Dandelions. A giant Piranha Plant is one of the bosses, Big Bungee Piranha.

Piranha Plants return in Yoshi's New Island. They appear on land, as well as inside of pipes in Spin-Lift Drift. The Piranha Plants stemming from the ground no longer start in miniaturized form.

Piranha Plants are enemies in Super Mario RPG: Legend of the Seven Stars and its remake. They are encountered in Pipe Vault. Piranha Plants attempt to attack Mario in the field by leaping from a pipe. Piranha Plants have root-like legs for walking but appear only in pipes outside of battle. They are unaffected by jump attacks. There is a Piranha Plant living at Monstro Town in the game, where when talked to, he talks about someone next door "mumbling about a Crystal-this and a Crystal-that", alluding to Culex. Chompweeds return, and Chewies debut as a variety. One of the bosses is a Piranha Plant named Smilax.

Piranha Plants are enemies in Yoshi's Story. Piranha Plants have teeth appearing to be on their lips and stalks covered in spikes. They can grow very large, to the point of resembling Naval Piranha. Piranha Plants are encountered in levels such as Piranha Grove. teeth also appear to be on their lips. Several varieties debut, such as Piranha Pests and Piranha Sprouts.

Piranha Plants appear in all entries of the Super Smash Bros. series, except for Super Smash Bros. Melee. The Mushroom Kingdom stage that appears in Super Smash Bros. and Super Smash Bros. Ultimate features Piranha Plants as obstacles that occasionally come out of the two pipes present there (with said Piranha Plants' appearances being based on that of the red Piranha Plants in Super Mario Bros.: The Lost Levels), dealing damage to any fighter that touches them; however, they can be attacked and knocked out easily. In Super Smash Bros. Brawl, a Piranha Plant is featured as a sticker and a trophy, and in the PictoChat stage, one of the drawings that appears in the background is a Piranha Plant. A Piranha Plant is also featured as a trophy in Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS and Super Smash Bros. for Wii U.

A Piranha Plant, also spelled lowercase, is a downloadable playable character in Super Smash Bros. Ultimate, as of January 29, 2019. It was available for free post-launch for anyone who registered the game through My Nintendo by January 31, 2019 (PST), and it can be purchased separately as of February 1, 2019 (PST). In its trailer, Piranha Plant is seen being approached by Mario before knocking him back and repeatedly biting at him before the tagline is displayed: "Piranha Plant Pipes Up!" ("Piranha Plant Joins the Battle!" in the British English version). Piranha Plant is unlockable in Adventure Mode: World of Light after freeing ten fighters, which occurs automatically if the criteria is fulfilled prior to downloading Piranha Plant. Piranha Plant's basic moves include bites, headbutts, leaf swipes, and pot strikes. Piranha Plant's up special move is Ptooie, which involves shooting spiked balls similarly to the species; its side special move is Poison Breath, which involves spewing a damaging cloud of poison, similarly to Putrid Piranhas; its up special move is Piranhacopter, in which Piranha Plant flies like a Jumping Piranha Plant; its down special move is Long-Stem Strike; and its Final Smash is Petey Piranha, which involves summoning the character to trap opponents in cages, breathe fire on them, and slam the cages onto the ground. Piranha Plant's forward smash is Prickly Swing, in which it transforms into a Prickly Piranha Plant to perform a headbutt. Its back aerial is Fire Breath, in which Piranha Plant spits an explosive fireball in the manner of a Fire Piranha Plant. Its forward tilt is Push and Pull and its down aerial is Flowerpot Meteor. Piranha Plant is one of the heavier fighters, and its mobility is also below-average in many areas, apart from its dashing speed. Piranha Plant was originally intended to have three jumps, but the third jump was removed prior to the fighter's release. Piranha Plant smiles or scowls for certain actions, making it more expressive than in other appearances. Its victory theme is identical to Bowser's and Bowser Jr.'s. One of Piranha Plant's victory poses shows it biting Mario, stopping him from jumping over Piranha Plant, and then smiling after launching him away. The Palutena's Guidance conversation on Piranha Plant reveals Viridi as being very knowledgeable on the species, having written a thesis on it and naming its many variants, irritating Pit and Palutena in the process.
The alternate costumes reference the different types of Piranha Plants and warp pipe color variations:

Piranha Plant's Classic Mode route, "New Bloom," involves fighting every newcomer in the base game, including a boss not seen in other games of the Super Smash Bros. series. Piranha Plant engages in these battles in the following order:

A Horde Battle of eight Inklings at Moray Towers
Ridley and Dark Samus at Norfair
Simon and Richter at Dracula's Castle
King K. Rool and Chrom at Pirate Ship
Isabelle and Daisy at Smashville
Incineroar and Ken at the Boxing Ring
Final boss fight against Rathalos
The version 2.0.0 update introduced a glitch where playing as Piranha Plant in All-Star Smash can corrupt save data.

Piranha Plants are obstacles in the board Peach's Birthday Cake and the minigame Whack-a-Plant, as well as audience members of Mario Bandstand in Mario Party. Piranha Plants can be placed around the Peach's Birthday Cake board, with players losing a Star if they land on a spot with one. A three-legged Piranha Plant appears in Piranha's Pursuit as an obstacle to avoid. Piranha Plants in Whack-a-Plant are stomped by player characters as part of the minigame objective. A giant Piranha Plant is found in Tug o' War.

Piranha Plants are a species in Mario Party 2. A Piranha Plant is encountered in Mini-Game Park, chasing a butterfly, until the player purchases a certain number minigames from Woody, then the Piranha Plant gives the player the minigames Dungeon Dash and Rainbow Run before leaving. Piranha Plants are background elements in Bowser Land, where one is near some red Warp Pipes, and Space Land, where two are inside of a glass dome. A Piranha Plant is an obstacle in the minigame Toad in the Box, where it stuns the player character if summoned from a rotating block.

Piranha Plants are a species in the minigames Storm Chasers and Winner's Wheel, as well as a partner in Duel Mode in Mario Party 3. The Piranha Plants in Storm Chasers are watered by chasing a moving cloud, and those in Winner's Wheel spectate, dancing if the player character wins. The Piranha Plant in Duel Mode is partnered with Waluigi by default, and it has an attack power of 3, one health point, a salary of five coins, and sometimes provides an additional die with 1-3 after rolling.

Piranha Plants are background characters in Mario Party 4. One is a speaker in the sound test in the Option Room, and another is the shower head of the Bowser bath present.

Piranha Plants are a species in the minigame Pop-Star Piranhas, a part of the Piranha Plant Capsule, a weapon in Super Duel Mode, a background element in Triple Jump (at the 150 foot/50m sign), and the likeness of two statues in Bowser Nightmare in Mario Party 5. The Piranha Plants in Pop-Star Piranhas all dance, except for one, with the player characters guessing which one. A Piranha Plant of the Piranha Plant Capsule takes away half the coins of whoever lands on a space with it.

Piranha Plants are referenced in Odd Card Out, a species in the board Thirsty Gulch, a part of the Piranha Plant Orb (functioning the same as before), obstacles in Mole-it!, and the likeness of two lamps in Seer Terror in Mario Party 6. Piranha Plants in Odd Card Out are depicted on some cards.

Piranha Plants are a species in the oasis of the desert area of Shroom City and the minigame Match 'Em, as well as obstacles in Go-go Pogo in Mario Party Advance. The player can pick a Piranha Plant from an oasis in the desert area after Bob-omba requests a "healthy, pretty" flower. When plucked, a Piranha Plant bites the player, and the Piranha Plant is happily described with a few adjectives when delivered to Bob-omba. The Piranha Plant is revealed in the epilogue to have grown much larger.

Piranha Plants are a species in Herbicidal Maniac, a background element in Wingin' It, a part of the Piranha Plant Orb (again unchanged), and the likeness of both fountains in the mode Waterfall Battle and statues in Pyramid Scheme in Mario Party 7. Their lips were changed to white, unlike previous entries, no longer being based on their Super Mario 64 design. The Piranha Plants in Herbicidal Maniac are competitively shot at by the player characters, and hitting a mine causes more to appear. The Piranha Plant in Wingin' It appears from a house's chimney if a team gets 19 meters or higher.

Piranha Plants are obstacles in the boards DK's Treetop Temple and King Boo's Haunted Hideaway and the minigames Winner or Dinner and Specter Inspector. The Piranha Plants on the boards take ten coins from player characters who land on an ? Space with them.

Piranha is a boss in Story Mode, being fought in the minigame Feed and Seed at the end of Wiggler's Garden in Mario Party DS. The player character and their earn the first Sky Crystal after defeating it.

Piranha Plants are obstacles in the minigames Speeding Bullets, Piranha Patch, and Wiggler Bounce, board features associated with Unlucky Spaces, and the likeness of the "Gluttonous Gobbler" constellation in Mario Party 9. The Piranha Plants of Piranha Patch grow from flower buds and deduct a point from the player characters they attack. The Piranha Plants at Unlucky Spaces emerge from the red Warp Pipe next to them to take the captain who landed on it to an underground area with Mini Ztar Spaces.

Piranha Plants are obstacles in the minigame Quickest Cricket and depicted on a reel in the minigame Get Reel in Mario Party: Island Tour.

Piranha Plants are a species in the board Mushroom Park and the minigame Pipe Sniper in Mario Party 10. Besides Piranha Plants, their golden variety also appears, and Petey Piranha is a boss fought in Petey's Bomb Battle.

Piranha Plants are obstacles in the minigame Piranha Plantemonium in Mario Party: Star Rush. They appear alongside their golden counterparts.

Piranha Plants appear in Super Mario Party in the minigame Miner Setbacks as obstacles. They also appear in the Party Plaza initially, where they block Warp Pipes leading to locked game modes. Kamek removes the Piranha Plants with magic as the player completes requirements, making the pipes and by extension the minigames accessible.

Piranha Plants reappear on Peach's Birthday Cake in Mario Party Superstars, although they now only steal 5 coins from opponents that land on their spaces. In this game, they are now grown from Piranha Pods thrown by Lakitus. Big Piranha Plants grown from larger Piranha Pods replace the original Piranha Plant's function, stealing a Star from opponents that land on their spaces.

Piranha Plants are enemies in Paper Mario. They are depicted with yellow teeth and do not appear in pipes. Piranha Plants are encountered in Forever Forest. They move around freely and burrow underground when near Mario before emerging to try and bite him, giving it the First Strike. Varieties debuting in the game include Putrid Piranhas and Frost Piranhas, as well as the boss Lava Piranha.

Piranha Plants are enemies in Paper Mario: The Thousand-Year Door and its remake. They are encountered in Boggly Woods and the Great Tree, having been adapted into a monochrome color to suit their environment, similarly to Clefts. In the English localization, they are known as Pale Piranhas and identified by Goombella as a subspecies. However, every other language lacks this detail and states they are the same plants from Mario's previous adventures, although the Spanish localization has a color identifier in its name regardless. The game's English demo treats them as normal Piranha Plants. Pale Piranhas behave like Piranha Plants in the previous game, but those the Great Tree they can move to higher and lower ground in rooms with multiple levels. In the Glitz Pit, a Pale Piranha appears as one of the members of The Mind-Bogglers. Piranha Plants are part of the audience, joining in Boggly Woods once Pale Piranhas are encountered, though they can be seen sooner if fighting against Spanias in the western portion of Rogueport Underground.
Additionally, Putrid Piranhas and Frost Piranhas return from Paper Mario, now simply being recolors of Pale Piranhas. A new, powerful variety, simply called Piranha Plant, also appears. These Piranha Plants are colored the same as typical Piranha Plants, have extremely high HP and attack power, and only appear in the optional Pit of 100 Trials.

Piranha Plants return in Super Paper Mario. They retain their yellow teeth and are described as "notorious" by Tippi. Piranha Plants are encountered in Lineland, Gloam Valley, and The Bitlands. They act more similarly to their functional equivalents introduced in Super Mario Bros. Besides Piranha Plants, Putrid Piranhas and Frost Piranhas also return.

Piranha Plants are enemies in Paper Mario: Sticker Star. They are first encountered in World 3, then later in World 5, and also assist the third Wiggler Segment. Piranha Plants more closely resemble their design in other games, no longer having yellow teeth. Piranha Plants have a lot of HP, can home in on Mario on the field, and guard ? Blocks. Besides biting, Piranha Plants have an added attack where they spit clouds of dust, which can inflict the dizzy status. Piranha Plants sometimes dig underground to dodge Mario's attacks for a turn. They can be stomped only if using the Iron Jump sticker, similarly to previous entries. Piranha Plants can be assisted by Shy Guys, Snifits, Hammer Bros., Poison Bloopers, Spike Tops and Spear Guys.

Piranha Plants return in Paper Mario: Color Splash. They are encountered in Redpepper Crater and Mossrock Theater.

Origami Piranha Plants are enemies in Paper Mario: The Origami King. They are encountered in a section of Spring of Jungle Mist. Besides biting, they can spit fireballs. Piranha Plants can be jumped on using Iron Boots and their variants only. Origami Piranha Plants burrow underground while their spot is selected and reemerge once their spot is deselected. Besides them, Origami Nipper Plants, Ptooies, and Jumping Piranha Plants are also enemies, along with Paper Macho versions of Piranha Plants.

Piranha Plants appear in only two games of the Mario Golf series. A few Piranha Plants are obstacles on the Bowser Badlands course in Mario Golf: Toadstool Tour, inhabiting pipes and taking any ball entering its mouth before spitting it out into lava. A Piranha Plant in Mario Golf: World Tour appears only during Nabbit's Double Bogey animation, biting Nabbit from his bag as he tries to jump inside of it.

Piranha Plants are enemies in Mario & Luigi: Superstar Saga and its remake. They are encountered at the Beanbean International Airport, occupying the landing strip and preventing Toad Express from landing. The Piranha Plants respawn later unless they are doused with water and then struck by Luigi's Thunderhand. Besides Piranha Plants, a giant Piranha Plant named Mom Piranha is the boss of the area, and there is a mini-boss named Piranha Bean, who can shrink anything it eats.
Minion Quest: The Search for Bowser includes lots of Piranha Beans as enemies, while Fire Stalking Piranha Plants appear as recruitable allies.

Piranha Plants do not appear in Mario & Luigi: Partners in Time, though Petey Piranha is a boss and two varieties made their debut, Elasto-Piranhas and Piranha Planets.

A cell-based variation of the Piranha Plant, the Piranha Plorp, appear in the Energy Hold in Mario & Luigi: Bowser's Inside Story and its remake. Two giant Piranha Plants are also located in Peach's Castle, and have to be defeated by Bowser by leaping up to their buds and bashing into them.

Piranha Plants are enemies in Mario & Luigi: Dream Team. They are encountered in the biggest Dreampoint of Dreamy Driftwood Shore. They spit fire several times upon emerging before retreating into the ground temporarily, repeating this process repeatedly on the same spot. Piranha Plants all retreat underground briefly if Luiginary Gravity is used.
In battle, a Piranha Plant may spit a large fireball or a Fly Guy at Mario, which can be jumped over or idled under respectively to avoid damage. Piranha Plants are weak to Fire attacks, so the Luiginary Flame inflicts a lot of damage on them. Piranha Plants can spit out Nipper Spores, which become Nipper Plants that assist them from the background. A Piranha Plant can spit a fireball towards Nipper Plants if they are still alive, bouncing the fireball about until each on has touched it, and the last one to do so sends it towards Mario, who avoids damage by countering it at the Piranha Plant using his hammer.

Piranha Plants do not appear in Mario & Luigi: Paper Jam, though Fire Piranha Plants and their paper variant do.

Piranha Plants are enemies in Yoshi Topsy-Turvy. It holds Yoshi in its mouth for a few seconds before spitting him out, similarly as in Super Mario World 2: Yoshi's Island.

Piranha Plants and Wild Ptooie Piranhas are enemies in Yoshi Touch & Go. They give four points when defeated. Both varieties behave identically as in Super Mario World 2: Yoshi's Island, but both of them take three hits to defeat, changing from green, yellow, and lastly red before their defeat. Wild Ptooie Piranhas also appear.

Piranha Plants are enemies in Super Princess Peach. They behave identically as in Super Mario World 2: Yoshi's Island. A Piranha Plant is defeated either by Perry or the Rage vibe. Besides Piranha Plants, Ptooies, Nipper Plants, and Boss P. Plant also return. Glad P. Plants were added as a variety.

In the Mario Baseball series, Piranha Plants appear in Mario Superstar Baseball and its sequel, Mario Super Sluggers. In both games, Piranha Plants are obstacles in Yoshi Park, where they will eat any nearby balls and spit them out in a random direction. Touching a Piranha Plant briefly stuns a fielder. In Mario Super Sluggers, a Piranha Plant can take a ball, go in the pipe, and transport it to another part of the field. In both games, Piranha Plants also appear in the Piranha Panic minigame, where players must hit colored Piranha Plants with eggs of matching colors, although purple Piranha Plants can be hit with any egg. In Mario Super Sluggers, the minigame instead has the player pitch the right balls into the Piranha Plants in order to score points while avoiding being stunned by it.

Piranha Plants appear in a few events in the Mario & Sonic series. Piranha Plants in Warp Pipes appear as obstacles in Ski Cross Racing in the Nintendo DS version of Mario & Sonic at the Olympic Winter Games, where they move horizontally in and out of the pipes and cause any characters that are hit to lose speed and Rings. In the Wii version, Piranha Plants in Warp Pipes similarly appear as obstacles in the individual and team versions of Dream Ski Cross, as well as in Dream Ice Hockey, where they occasionally bite at nearby characters and knock over any that hit them. In the Nintendo 3DS version of Mario & Sonic at the Rio 2016 Olympic Games, Piranha Plants in Warp Pipes appear as obstacles in BMX Plus, where they occasionally bite at the characters, and if hit, the character loses both speed and Rings. In the same game, Piranha Plants also appear in Golf Plus, although they do not affect the gameplay.
In the Nintendo 3DS version of Mario & Sonic at the London 2012 Olympic Games, a single Piranha Plant in a Warp Pipe briefly appears in the Story Mode bonus episode The Life of a Minion, where it is summoned by Magikoopa to stun Vector.

Piranha Plants are enemies in Captain Toad: Treasure Tracker and its port. They are defeated either from being hit by turnips, being spun into, or landed on.

Piranha Plants, along with Fire Piranha Plants, appear in the Mario vs. Donkey Kong series, debuting in Mario vs. Donkey Kong: Minis March Again!. They also appear in Mario vs. Donkey Kong: Mini-Land Mayhem! in Construction Zone, Mario vs. Donkey Kong: Tipping Stars in Level 5-6, and Mini Mario & Friends: amiibo Challenge in Level 4. They do not generate fireballs, but if they receive a fireball from a Fire Piranha Plant, they spit it back shortly after, behaving just like their fire-shooting counterparts in this case. They are fixed to a surface and can destroy the Minis at a single touch, but can otherwise be defeated with Hammers, a Slope Slide or if hit by shooting a Mini from a Cannon.

Piranha Plants are enemies and potential allies in Puzzle & Dragons: Super Mario Bros. Edition. Their main attribute is Wood, with no sub-attributes. Its skill Piranha Drain turns all Water Orbs into Heart Orbs. Its awoken skill Wood Boost raises the ATK of all Wood attribute team members whenever a horizontal line of Wood Orbs is cleared. 
Its HP and RCV are low and its ATK is below average. The player can transform a Piranha Plant into a Fire Piranha Plant by using four Fire Flowers on it. If the player instead uses four Poison Mushrooms, it will transform into a Bone Piranha Plant instead. Because the Piranha Plant is treated as a generic enemy, it can still be battled, even if the player has one in their party.

Piranha Plants are enemies in Yoshi's Woolly World and its port. They function the same as in the Yoshi's Island series. Piranha Plants lunge in the direction of Yoshi and munch continuously. They are tied up if hit by a yarn ball, leaving them vulnerable to being defeated from a stomp.

In the Mario + Rabbids series, Piranha Plants physically appear in only Mario + Rabbids Kingdom Battle. They can be seen throughout the Flushy Forest section of Ancient Gardens, such as Piranha Plants with lamp-like fixtures, which lie on the sidetrack in dimly lit parts of the forest, a three-headed Piranha Plant statue in The Mystic Maze of Mysticism and Mazing, and a potted Piranha Plant that was merged with a Rabbid, becoming Pirabbid Plant. Additionally, one of Mario's Blaster weapons has a design based on a Piranha Plant. In Mario + Rabbids Sparks of Hope, a desk lamp resembling a Piranha Plant appears inside of the WM ARC.

Piranha Plants are enemies in Yoshi's Crafted World. They are encountered on both Yoshi's path and in the backdrop, where they cannot harm Yoshis. Piranha Plants are defeated from being hit by an egg. A large cardboard Piranha Plant named Spike the Piranha appears as the boss of Acorn Forest.

Piranha Plants appear in Dr. Mario World as assistants. Their stage mode effect grants a chance that two viruses will be eliminated at the start of the stage, though viruses that require multiple hits won't immediately be eliminated. Their versus mode effect grants a chance that all capsules will be eliminated if an object has reached the third row from the bottom line (this can only happen once per match after it is activated). The chance that these effects activate increases at higher levels, where at the first level it is 30% for stage mode (5% prior to version 2.3.0) and 20% in versus mode, but at the maximum level it is 80% for stage mode (25% prior to version 2.3.0) and 100% in versus mode. Clinic Events featured a Piranha Plant as a patient during each of season 5 and the season 3 revisit
A Piranha Plant is a playable character named Dr. Piranha Plant, released on December 16, 2020. Its skill in both stage mode and versus mode eliminates objects randomly, similar to Dr. Yoshi's skill. It is represented by pipes appearing, followed by the Piranha Plant emerging from the bottom-middle pipe and then biting. This skill prioritizes eliminating viruses, and will only target other objects if there are less viruses that this skill targets. The difference between Dr. Yoshi and Dr. Piranha Plant is that the amount of objects eliminated by the former is greater compared to the latter, but the skill meter charges slower. Capsules will only be targeted if other objects are not available.

Piranha Plants are referenced in Luigi's Mansion 3. Figurines of them are in some areas of the Hotel Shops.

A Piranha Plant named Izzy is a co-host of The Play Nintendo Show, along with Andrew Trego. Izzy is a voiced puppet who remains within a Warp Pipe during the duration of the show, whose two leaves serve as arms. He has a role in providing comic relief and hosting supporting segments for the show, such as "Izzy News." Andrew says that Izzy gets a bit snappy before lunch.

Piranha Plants appear in The Super Mario Bros. Movie as a part of Bowser's army, where they have longer and thinner stems, more spots, and sharper teeth. Additionally, mechanical Piranha Plants appear on the Training Course used to train Mario.

Although Piranha Plants do not make an appearance in the Super Mario Bros. film, they were planned to appear, as concept art for them was found along with other scrapped enemies and an early script for the film.

Piranha Plants are enemies in The Legend of Zelda: Link's Awakening and its rereleases, functioning the way they do in Super Mario Bros., and the Nintendo Switch remake, a figure of one can be won in the Trendy Game after clearing the Eagle's Tower and placed in Marin and Tarin's house.
The Manhandla, a boss from the The Legend of Zelda series, exhibits many traits akin to Piranha Plant variants. Piranha Plants also share several similarities to Deku Babas, which first appeared in The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time.

The silhouette of a Piranha Plant appears under the 3-Star difficulty of the "Get in Shape" minigame in Big Brain Academy.

A Piranha Plant is a character in Captain Rainbow. It is taken care of by Lip, a fairy from Panel de Pon.

Piranha Plants are enemies in the Yoshi's Island Zone DLC for Sonic Lost World. They use their design from the Yoshi's Island series. Piranha Plants are defeated only by kicking a Shy Guy into them.

Piranha Plants are part of the Warp Pipe furniture item in the Animal Crossing series, except in Animal Crossing: New Horizons, where they emerge from Warp Pipes in the animated mushroom mural wallpaper instead.

In the Super Mario Mash-up in Minecraft, Piranha Plants appear on Rose Bushes and Sculk Sensors. Besides them, Piranha Creepers and Nipper Plants also appear.

The player can grow a Piranha Plant in the Wii U and Nintendo Switch versions of Lego City Undercover. The Piranha Plant will shoot fireballs at the player.

Most bios of Piranha Plants point out their plant-like characteristics and their tendency to bite down on objects. Some bios also mention certain derived species of Piranha Plant.