Poison Piranha Plants are a variant of Piranha Plant that first appears in Super Mario Odyssey. When they see Mario, they spit poison, which creates a puddle if it touches the ground. When Poison Piranha Plants are about to spit poison, their heads become purple.

Poison Piranha Plants are found in the Iron Road section of the Wooded Kingdom, in the Underground Power Plant area of the Metro Kingdom, and in a bonus area of Dark Side based on a Wooded Kingdom area. Stomping a Poison Piranha Plant clears out poison in a circle around it. If Mario throws Cappy at a Posion Piranha Plant, it will swallow Cappy, stopping it from spitting poison. (If Cappy is close enough to prompt this response, but not close enough to actually be eaten, the Piranha Plant will repeatedly try to eat Cappy to no effect.) Cappy struggles to escape, which can be hastened by pressing the  or  buttons. Alternatively, the plant can be defeated by kicking them over while Cappy is trapped. Knocking or throwing a rock into a Poison Piranha Plant causes it to swallow the rock instead to the same effect, where it will spit out the rock after some time has passed. This method allows Mario to capture the Piranha Plant with Cappy. When controlled by Mario, the plant first has to spit out the rock, then can spit poison by pressing . By shaking the controller, the plant can spit poison faster and farther. Piranha Plants are only able to rotate in place. Big Poison Piranha Plants that spit bigger balls of poison also appear.

In Super Smash Bros. Ultimate, Poison Piranha Plants (simply called Poison Piranhas) are mentioned briefly by Viridi during Palutena's Guidance dialogue for Piranha Plant.

Poison Piranha Plants reappear in Mario Kart Live: Home Circuit, where their heads are always purple. They appear on the trackside of the Jungle environment and spit out poison onto the track. Driving over a puddle causes the poison to cover the player's screen, obscuring their view similar to an Inky Piranha Plant. Driving into one also slows Mario or Luigi down for a few seconds.