Poison (also known as poisoned water, a Poison Bog, a Poisoned Bog, or a poisonous bog) is a liquid hazard, commonly purple in color, that usually causes the player to instantly lose a life or inflicts damage to them, similarly to lava.

In Donkey Kong Country, the level Poison Pond takes place in a green toxic pond, though it does not harm the Kongs.

In Donkey Kong Country 2: Diddy's Kong Quest, a poisonous liquid appears quickly rising in Toxic Tower. If Rattly, Squawks or Squitter touch the liquid, they take damage until they lose a life. In all three swamp levels (Barrel Bayou, Krockhead Klamber, and Mudhole Marsh), while the water is not shown as poisonous, Diddy and Dixie Kong cannot swim in it and instantly lose a life.

In Donkey Kong Country 3: Dixie Kong's Double Trouble!, poisonous water appears in Poisonous Pipeline. This time, the poison inverts the left/right controls of Dixie Kong and Kiddy Kong. Upon jumping out of the poison, the apes instantly go back to normal controls.

In Super Mario Sunshine, poison appears in a secret area found within Delfino Plaza. In this area, Mario must ride on a leaf down the poison in order to collect eight red coins. In this instance, touching the water is instantly fatal. Additionally, in certain episodes of Bianco Hills, Ricco Harbor, and Noki Bay, the water is polluted and can damage Mario.

In New Super Mario Bros., poison can be found throughout several stages, mainly in World 4. In this game, it is purple and behaves the same way as lava. Dorrie and Koopa Troopas appear to be resistant to poison.

In Super Mario Galaxy, poison appears as an obstacle for a small variety of galaxies. Poison surrounds the Bubble Breeze Galaxy. Mario must navigate while in a bubble away from mines, as steering into one pops his bubble and drops him into the poison. In Toy Time Galaxy's mission Luigi's Purple Coins, Mario must carefully and cautiously collect a number of Purple Coins on a pixel Luigi-shaped planet made up of disappearing and rotating platforms, with green poison in between replacing the lava from the pixel Mario planet. It is possible to escape the poison with a well-timed spin, causing Mario to grab a ledge of a platform.
An element similar to poison known as dark matter appears in Bowser's Dark Matter Plant. Mario must be cautious as to not fall in, which would result in him disintegrating and losing a life.

In New Super Mario Bros. Wii, poison can be found throughout several stages, mostly in World 5, the forest world. It retains its appearance from New Super Mario Bros. Koopa Troopas and Big Wigglers are resistant to poison.

In Super Mario Galaxy 2, the largest planet of the Boo Moon Galaxy is covered in a darkly-colored Sinking Swamp, behaving like the poison in the previous game. It subsequently appears in Mario Squared Galaxy.

In Super Mario 3D Land, World 2-2 and Special 6-3, both underground levels, contain poison.

Poison reappears in New Super Mario Bros. 2, again in forest-themed levels. As a new trait, they can rise and drop in World 3-4. Porcupuffers are resistant to poison.

Poison returns in the game New Super Mario Bros. U, where pools of poison surround Soda Jungle, having the same look. Poison also appears in New Super Luigi U and New Super Mario Bros. U Deluxe. As in New Super Mario Bros. Wii, Big Wigglers are immune to the poison.

Poison makes its next appearance in Super Mario 3D World and its port. The stages in which the hazard mainly appears are Piranha Creeper Creek, Deep Jungle Drift, and their harder counterparts.

Poison returns once again in Super Mario Run, being introduced in the version 3.0.4 update for the game. It appears in the level Spike Bar Jungle of World Star. A new enemy called Poison Bubbles also appear, where they jump in and out of the poison.

Poison appears in Super Mario Odyssey, where it can be found in the Sand Kingdom, the Lost Kingdom, and Bowser's Kingdom. In the Lost Kingdom, Poison displaces pits entirely, as the Forgotten Isle is surrounded by poison. Poison also appears in several sub-areas in various kingdoms. Some places have waves of poison rolling across, overlapping platforms as they go. Another area has geysers of poison, which also can overlap platforms. In Regular Mode, touching poison instantly depletes the Health Meter. If the player uses Assist Mode, and there is a safe return point registered, Mario will only lose one wedge of health and float back to that point in a bubble. Some scenarios lack a return point of this kind, and those defeat Mario irrespective of Assist Mode. Most characters in the game vanish on contact on poison. This includes characters Mario is capturing, forcing Mario out of them in the process. Mario can safely ride Jaxi over poison. Poison can appear in 8-bit areas, with the same properties.

In the Wooded Kingdom and the Underground Power Plant of the Metro Kingdom, puddles of poison can be found on the ground. Touching one of the puddles causes Mario to lose a section of his Health Meter. Poison Piranha Plants and Big Poison Piranha Plants can spit globs of poison, which will create this kind of puddle when it hits the ground. Spewart also spits out this kind of poison in his battles. Throwing Cappy at this type of poison will cause the portion he passes through to disappear,  which can reveal invisible coins. Similarly, the poison globs from Piranha Plants can be negated by Cappy before they land.
Poison has a denser, more tar-like consistency in Super Mario Odyssey than in other titles. This does not apply to poison seen in 8-bit areas. If Mario touches poison, it cosmetically spreads over his body.

Poison appears as a course element in Super Mario Maker 2. It replaces the water in the forest theme when the course is set to nighttime. In the Super Mario Bros. style, poison is dark green, while it is purple in the other game styles. When Yoshi eats a poisoned Cheep Cheep, he can spit purple poison balls which function the same as fireballs, except that they cannot melt Frozen Coins. They also have a different sound effect when spat out.
In version 3.0.0 of Super Mario Maker 2, poison ponds were added as one of the three options of scenery in forest-themed Super Worlds.

Poison returns in Super Mario Bros. Wonder, where there is now a green variant featured in palace levels, as well as a dark blue variant in some levels in Fungi Mines. There are also poison bubbles of varying sizes that appear during certain Wonder Effects.

In Wario World, poison appears in Unithorn's Lair. In this game, it does not damage Wario, but rather cause him to bounce around the room and lose coins while doing so. The poison appears mostly translucent, but with a shining or bubbling surface.

Poison appears throughout World 3 in Paper Mario: Sticker Star. It is created by Gooper Blooper, and it will disappear once Gooper Blooper is defeated. Wiggler, Snifits, and Cheep Cheeps can stay in it without taking damage.

Poison appears in Plum Park in Paper Mario: Color Splash. The water was poisoned due to Petea Piranha poisoning it from inside a Teapot. Once Petea is defeated, the poison changes to normal water.

Poison appears in Mario & Luigi: Dream Team in Somnom Woods. Falling into it has the same result as the player falling onto spikes elsewhere in the game. Oddly, in this game it appears to be electrified.

Poison appears in Yoshi's New Island in the Red Yoshi Star section of Ground Pound Rebound.

Poison returns in Captain Toad: Treasure Tracker with the same appearance as Super Mario 3D World.