Poochy is a dog who is characterized by having a spotted coat with a long red tongue, a black studded collar, large yellow lips, and a red (yellow in his Yoshi's Woolly World artwork) ball at the end of his tail. He barks happily constantly when he walks. In the Super Mario franchise, Poochy appears mostly in the Yoshi subset of platforming games. He can be found in certain levels and used as a safe platform. Poochy can walk over dangerous terrain, such as spikes and lava, allowing Yoshi to cross them safely.

Poochy debuts in Super Mario World 2: Yoshi's Island and reappears in the remake, Yoshi's Island: Super Mario Advance 3 (receiving no changes besides a graphical update). He can run on hazardous forms of terrain and charge through any enemies in his path. Poochy is ridden by jumping on his head and looking in the intended direction. He attempts to follow his rider after they dismount and waits under them if he cannot jump to their location, though he does not enter Warp Pipes and doors. He can also swim through water and lava while carrying Yoshi. If Poochy reaches a wall, he crosses through a gap if one is present (which usually only fits him and not Yoshi), and otherwise tries to jump over it, even when he cannot make it across. While he is jumping, Yoshi can jump off his head. He can be distracted by throwing an egg at his head, which he plays with and does not pay attention to anything else.
Poochy only appears in three levels: 1-Extra, Poochy Ain't Stupid; 2-1, Visit Koopa And Para-Koopa; and 3-2, Jungle Rhythm...

Poochy appears in Tetris Attack alongside a Grinder as one of Yoshi's opponents, taking the place of the nature fairy Thiana from Panel de Pon. He was originally Yoshi's friend, but went against him due to a brainwashing spell cast by Bowser and Kamek. Once Yoshi defeats him (which involves playing the game's panel-based puzzles against him), he and Grinder are broken from the spell and joins Yoshi as he fights against Bowser. He is then unlocked as a playable character that can fight against the other brainwashed characters. There is no difference in gameplay, as the only changes are the appearance of the player's side and the sounds that play as panels are matched (cheerful barks as opposed to Yoshi's voice).

Poochy also appears in several levels of Yoshi's Story, helping the Baby Yoshis along the way. Although the Baby Yoshis are not able to ride on top of him, Poochy is able to find hidden fruits and hearts. In most levels, Poochy appears in a single spot, barking to show the location of a secret. However, in level 1-1, Treasure Hunt, he plays a much larger role. In that level, Poochy starts out chained to a post that can only be removed by ground-pounding it, which breaks the chain and frees Poochy. After being released, Poochy runs through the level and sniffs out hidden items. When Poochy discovers something, he stands by the spot and barks, and the item can then be revealed by ground-pounding. After the item is revealed, Poochy moves on to sniff out other hidden items.
Poochy's barking is a common stock puppy barking sound, similar to the dogs from The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time, The Legend of Zelda: Majora's Mask, and their respective remakes.

Poochy returns once again in Yoshi's New Island, regaining his ability to walk on hazardous obstacles from Super Mario World 2: Yoshi's Island. He also behaves and is able to be controlled the same way, though he is now able to smash through certain types of blocks and grab items (such as keys) that the Yoshi can then take. He makes only two appearances in the game: first in 3-5, Don't Fear the Spear, which lets him demonstrate his new abilities, and then in 4-S, See Poochy Run!, where he must be used to clear the stage while avoiding Spinners and spikes.

Poochy returns in Yoshi's Woolly World and its Nintendo 3DS version, appearing in Spiky Stroll, Knot-Wing the Koopa's Aqua Fort, and Wonderful World of Wool. He has similar behaviors to those in his previous installments, though he has gained a few new abilities. Two Yoshis are able to ride him now, and they sit on his back rather than stand. In addition, he can now collect Smiley Flowers, Wonder Wools, and Keys in his mouth and bring them to Yoshi. Once Poochy delivers them, he dances happily. As part of the game's wool motif, he has a knitted appearance. If Yoshi tries to eat him, he will whimper, and if Yoshi ground pounds him, he will make a squeaking noise. He will bounce onto the course when a Yarn Poochy amiibo is used, but he will leave if he gets crushed or the Yarn Poochy amiibo is used again. He will respawn after he gets defeated or falls down a pit. A purchasable Power Badge makes Poochy available at any course, but because his usefulness is very situational at most courses, it only costs 500 beads to use the badge, making it the cheapest one in the game. However, even when the badge is equipped, Poochy does not appear during boss battles.
Poochy has a more prominent role in the port. The Poochy Pups make their debut in Mellow Mode. They follow Yarn Yoshi around, assist the player in discovering secrets, and can be used as ammo instead of Eggs. In addition, Poochy stars in a new mode, Poochy Dash. These are special levels that feature Poochy running endlessly to collect beads, similarly to Super Mario Run. He will lose points if he bumps into something or falls down a Pit.
A Poochy amiibo was included alongside the game. Using the amiibo allows the player to unlock new designs for Poochy in the Poochy Hut. These designs can be unlocked by completing special missions in Poochy Dash, and can be used either in Poochy Dash mode or in the main levels.

Poochy and the Poochy Pups reappear in Yoshi's Crafted World. Poochy appears in the levels Poochy's Tape Trail, Poochy's Sweet Run, and Poochy's Magma Run. Like in the previous games, he helps Yoshi traverse dangerous terrain, as well as being able to grab Smiley Flowers as he could in Yoshi's Woolly World. In this game, Poochy is also capable of defeating some enemies Yoshi cannot. Whenever Yoshi stands still, Poochy may perform some playful animations.
The Poochy Pups reappear in the flip side versions of levels. Three are hidden in each level, and are worth one Smiley Flower each when brought to the goal. Although they can no longer sniff secrets for the player, as the flip side levels have no hidden collectibles aside from the Poochy Pups, they can still be used in place of eggs.
In addition, whenever Yoshi beats a flip side level with all three Poochy Pups in tow within the allotted time, Poochy appears to give the player a Smiley Flower.
Poochy crafts also appear in the game: one is a framed picture of him found in Haunted Maker Mansion, and another is a clay statue of him found in Skulking Around.

Poochy makes a minor cameo appearance in Excitebike: Bun Bun Mario Battle in the audience to when the players are ranked after the race. As the background is repeated, two Poochys can be seen at one time.

Poochy makes a cameo in the Club Nintendo comic "Rummelplatzquatsch". He appears on the screen of Mario's Game Boy Camera, which supposedly tells the future. After Poochy shows up on the screen, a pack of dogs comes running towards Luigi and urinate on him.

Poochy appears as a supporting character in volumes 19 and 20 of the Coro Coro Comics manga Super Mario-kun. When he first appears, Red Yoshi mistakes him for an enemy and eats Poochy. Red Yoshi releases him in an egg after Mario reprimands him, and Poochy emerges unharmed. He accompanies Mario and the six Baby Yoshis on their quest to retrieve the Super Happy Tree, and forms a special friendship with Yellow Yoshi.
Poochy appears in volume 19 chapter 5, 愛犬ポチ！みんなのためにがんばるワン！！ (Beloved Poochy! The dog who does his best for everyone!!), and is the central figure in the events of that chapter.
Also in volume 19, Poochy defecates several times in the manga, being the only character in it to do so.
A different Poochy made his first appearance in volume 15 of Super Mario-kun.

His Yoshi's Story artwork is reused as a stamp in Mario Artist: Paint Studio.

In Mario Kart: Double Dash!!, Poochy makes a cameo appearance as a background attraction of the Baby Park course.

Poochy makes his first physical appearance in the Mario Kart series in the Booster Course Pass DLC for Mario Kart 8 Deluxe. As a non-playable character, he appears in the background of the Yoshi's Island course, where he is seen atop Yoshi's mailbox near the beginning of the course. Poochy has three different animations: he may sleep, bark happily, or leap excitedly into the air while barking.

Poochy is a playable High-End driver in Mario Kart Tour, debuting in the 2023 Yoshi Tour on April 5, 2023. This marks his first playable appearance in the Mario Kart series. His special item is the Lucky Seven. His voice clips are taken from Yoshi's Story. Due to his status as a driver, he does not appear on the mailbox in the Yoshi's Island course, unlike in Mario Kart 8 Deluxe. Additionally, a cup named after Poochy, the Poochy Cup, was introduced in the 2023 Mii Tour. Poochy was the final new character to the Mario Kart series to debut in Tour.

A gaddget named Poochy Pal appears in Mario Party Advance. Poochy moves around without the player controlling him. He walks, sometimes sleeps, and interacts with various objects in a backyard setting, such as a Warp Pipe that he can enter.

In the Super Mario Mash-up in Minecraft, Wolves are retextured to look like Poochy. When untamed, their tail is red and straight, with their eyes narrowing when provoked. When tamed, they wear a collar and their tails rise, resembling Poochy's usual appearance more closely. Unlike Poochy in the Yoshi games, Wolves cannot withstand lava unless they have fire resistance.

Poochy appears in several pieces of Hint Art in Super Mario Odyssey. He can also be fished out of the poison pond in Bowser's Kingdom using a captured Lakitu, at which point he leaves behind a Power Moon titled "Fishing(?) in Bowser's Castle" before vanishing. This marks the first time Poochy appears in a Super Mario game. Poochy being able to withstand poison may be a nod to how he is able to withstand other hazards like lava and spikes in the Yoshi platforming games.

Yarn Poochy appears in Super Smash Bros. Ultimate as an Advanced-class Shield-type primary spirit with three support slots. When used in battle, it decreases the fighter's weight. The spirit can be obtained either by winning its corresponding battle on the Spirit Board or in World of Light, or by scanning the Yarn Poochy amiibo. In World of Light, the spirit is located on the light side of The Final Battle map. Its puppet fighter is Duck Hunt on the Super Smash Bros. Brawl rendition of the Yoshi's Island stage; the stage is covered in lava and the puppet fighter can damage the player by simply dashing into them, referencing Poochy's resistance to lava and his ability to defeat enemies by running into them in the Yoshi's Island games, respectively.

Poochy can be seen in early screenshots of Paper Mario, indicating that he was originally intended to appear in the game, but he was removed from the final game.