Poochy & Yoshi's Woolly World is a platformer game in the Yoshi franchise for the Nintendo 3DS. It is a port of Yoshi's Woolly World, which was released for the Wii U in 2015. The game includes the entirety of the original game's levels, along with a bonus mode called Poochy Dash in which the player controls Poochy and tries to collect as many Beads as possible. It also introduces Poochy Pups, who assist the player in discovering secrets when playing in the easier Mellow Mode, Yoshi Theater, which features 31 Yoshi stop-motion videos, and the ability to design custom patterns for Yarn Yoshi. The game uses up 974.125 MB (7,793 blocks) of free space on the SD Card, if players purchase and download the game off the eShop.

Poochy & Yoshi's Woolly World, similarly to the original Wii U game, has received generally positive reviews. On review aggregate site Metacritic, it averages 77% based on 56 reviews. On GameRankings, it has the similar rank of 77.04%, based on 25 reviews.

Poochy & Yoshi's Woolly World was nominated for the "Best Handheld Game" award at The Game Awards 2017. However, it ultimately lost to Metroid: Samus Returns.

Discover a handicraft world bursting at the seams with creativity, as you guide Yarn Yoshi™ or Yarn Poochy through clever side-scrolling stages. Unravel secrets, toss yarn to weave platforms, and power up with woolly transformations.
All stages from the Wii U version are joined by new ones starring Poochy and more 3DS exclusive features! It's a mad dash for beads in the new Poochy stages: dodge stumps, mush down snowy paths, chase Lakitu, and unearth hidden paths and items. Sniffing out secrets is always a charm in Mellow Mode, thanks to the curious Poochy Pups.

As you find collectables, you'll unlock rewards, from extra stages to new Patterned Yoshi. You can also design and play as your very own Yarn Yoshi, or share it with friends via the StreetPass function! When you want a break from exploring, peek into the lives of Yarn Poochy and Yarn Yoshi in 30 hilarious stop-motion shorts. It's time to get crafty!

Poochy & Yoshi's Woolly World is an adventure game set in a world of yarn.
This game contains some new features, as well as every stage available in the Wii U version of Yoshi's Woolly World. There are exclusive new stages focused on Poochy. Time Poochy's jump to collect beads as you head for the goal. Poochy Pups also appear for the first time. These little helpers jump on suspicious spots to indicate where you should look for secrets and collectables.

In Poochy & Yoshi's Woolly World you can also design your own Yoshi patterns and use them in-game! What will your Yoshi look like?