Prince Mush is a character who first appeared in Paper Mario: The Thousand-Year Door. He was the first champion of the Glitz Pit during the game's storyline. He is also the younger brother of Jolene. In the Nintendo Switch remake, Prince Mush is added as a new superboss.

Prince Mush is mentioned by several characters throughout Chapter 3 of Paper Mario: The Thousand-Year Door and appears at the end of it. Prince Mush was captured and had his power drained by Grubba's power-draining machine after he found out that Grubba was using a Crystal Star to drain fighters' powers. As such, Mush was missing for an extended amount of time. Afterward, his older sister Jolene went undercover in the Glitz Pit to look for him, and after accidentally seeing Grubba power up by using his machine, she carefully guided Mario to defeat Grubba. After Grubba's defeat, Grubba claimed to have sucked the life out of Mush with his machine to benefit himself, saddening Jolene before Mush suddenly appears out of the Gold Star. Now united with his sister Jolene, they rejoice.
Later in Mario's adventure, he receives an e-mail from Jolene saying that Prince Mush is planning on making a comeback. However, he can never be fought in the game. Mush is also the answer to a question of the X-Naut Fortress Thwomp, who asks the name of the very first champion of Glitzville. Unlike other languages which give him a real name that differs from his stage name, Prince Mush's real name is simply Mush in the English version.

Once the player completes Chapter 3 and Jolene's trouble "Help wanted!", after some time, they will receive an email from her regarding Mush's training. After some more time and completing another chapter (the earliest possible chapter being Chapter 4, including taking the Ruby Star to the Thousand-Year Door), Mario will receive another email, this time from Prince Mush, who challenges him to an Exhibition Match arranged by Jolene. He can be found in the backstage corridor near the red locker rooms and spoken with, but Mario can only initiate the fight by approaching any league terminal and selecting Exhibition Match to reserve a fight against him. During the battle, the audience is composed entirely of Toads.
Prince Mush has a unique stance mechanic in combat, and during the first phase will switch between two different stances every turn. Mush's hopping stance allows him to fully evade grounded attacks, while his sidestep stance allows him to fully evade aerial attacks, as well as Yoshi's Gulp technique. Initially, Mush will attack using a dashing punch and a flashing dropkick. A successful superguard against these attacks will throw Mush off his stance, causing his Defense to drop to 0 for one turn. As Mush's HP lowers, he will start to charge attack power (sometimes on multiple turns in succession), before unleashing a powerful kicking combo that can hit Mario or his partner for damage five separate times in one turn. His moves have an initial attack power of 6, becoming 9 and 12 after a charge or two, respectively.
Once his HP drops by half or less, Mush will be able to power up tremendously, either doing so right before executing a standard attack or three times in a row to deliver a devastating kicking combo on the next turn. During this phase, if Mush's techniques are not superguarded against, he will remain in a defensive stance for every turn, blocking every incoming attack while creating two duplicates of himself after his action. In this powered-up state, he has an attack power of 20-24.
Mush is additionally immune to fire, explosion, and lightning attacks (preventing the Zap Tap badge or Volt Mushrooms from being effective) as well as counters and items that grant the Payback status such as Hold Fast, a Spite Pouch and the Return Postage badge, while also being immune to all status effects, with the exception of the KO effect inflicted by Showstopper. Some of his attacks may also drain Flower Points if connected.
Once defeated, he can be rematched at any time. Mario can also talk to Prince Mush in the Glitz Pit hallway, where he gives Mario his belt as a token of appreciation. Goombella's Tattle implies that Prince Mush once fell victim to Rawk Hawk's Poisoned Cake trick and thus dislikes said food as a result.

Prince Mush's field Tattle is exclusive to the Nintendo Switch remake. When his Exhibition Match becomes available, he can be found in the Glitz Pit hallway.