Prince Pikante's Peppery Mood is the first mission of the Shiverburn Galaxy in Super Mario Galaxy 2. The mission's objective is to defeat Prince Pikante.

The player begins on a stone platform next to some mesh platforms that will sink when the player steps on them. Past these platforms is a moving one that will move forward once the player steps onto it. The platform will move through Lava Geysers and Pulse Beams, which the player has to avoid while staying on the platform. At the end of the platform's path is a Cloud Flower the player needs to use in order to reach a switch that will freeze the planet when Ground Pounded. The player then has to cross the frozen lava to reach the Launch Star at the end, avoiding more Pulse Beams and Elite Octoombas. The Launch Star will send the player to the Magma Slice Planet which has many moving platforms the player needs to cross while avoiding Octoombas. On the second half of the planet, meteors will begin falling as well, and the Launch Star at the end will take the player to the Ice Magma Skate Planet. The first half of this planet is made up of ice, though the meteors that fall will create lava pools when they land. Halfway through the planet, the player will need to defeat five Roctos by sending back the coconuts they fire by spinning into them. Once all five are defeated, a stone bridge will appear and the player then has to cross disappearing and reappearing ice platforms created by falling Ice Meteors to get across the lava, with the Launch Star at the end taking the player to a Starshroom then to Prince Pikante's battle arena.
Prince Pikante attacks by moving around the skating rink and firing either fireballs from his six cannons and his mouth, or by firing a coconut. If the fireballs land on the ice, they will create a lava puddle. In order to damage Prince Pikante, the player needs to send back the coconuts the prince fires by spinning at them. Each time Prince Pikante is damaged, he will fire more fireballs, and he may also shoot several fireballs into the air and cause them to rain down. Damaging Prince Pikante three times will cause his vehicle to explode, rewarding the player with the Power Star.