Princess Peach (casually Peach, usually known as Princess Toadstool outside Japan prior to Yoshi's Safari, and later Super Mario 64) is a major character in the Super Mario franchise, the princess of the Mushroom Kingdom, and the love interest of Mario. She first appeared in Super Mario Bros. and was created by Shigeru Miyamoto to be the damsel-in-distress throughout most Super Mario games. She resides in her castle along with many Toads, who act as her loyal servants. Her kingdom is often attacked by Bowser and his minions.
Peach has an affinity for the color pink, which accents her gentle personality and kind temperament. Peach's kind nature and role as the damsel in distress are often represented with her heart abilities and crown emblem.
Since her debut, Peach has appeared in several Super Mario games spanning the course of decades, even appearing in more games than any other female character in video game history. Peach is occasionally a supporting character in mainstream games and she is almost always playable in spin-off installments. Her lead roles are in Super Princess Peach and Princess Peach: Showtime!

Peach's initial design was said to represent her stubborn yet cute appearance. Peach's initial design had been conceived by Shigeru Miyamoto, with some of his suggestions to Yoichi Kotabe being incorporated into the final design, in particular making her eyes look more "cat-like." Before Kotabe conceived Peach's finalized character design, a couple of prototype designs were created for the character. One such design, seen on the Super Mario Bros. Japanese box art, depicts her with a long-sleeved dress, no gloves, strawberry-blonde hair, and crown jewels that were white instead of red and blue. Another prototype, seen in the 1985 Japanese strategy guide How to win at Super Mario Bros., portrays her as a Toad rather than as a human, having a mushroom cap instead of natural hair, as well as a simple tiara and a gown reminiscent of Aurora from Disney's Sleeping Beauty, whom she somewhat currently resembles.
Peach has always been depicted as a blonde in video game artwork, although it was originally a darker, more strawberry-blonde shade (or in the case of the Japanese packaging, a dark blonde shade). However, due to the graphical limitations of the Family Computer and Family Computer Disk System hardware (including the Western Nintendo Entertainment System), Peach's on-screen sprite in the earlier Super Mario Bros. games displayed her with reddish-brown hair, and as a result, she was depicted as a redhead in the DiC Entertainment cartoons, as well as reddish-brown in Mario-related merchandise such as a 1988 toy box artwork. Starting with Super Mario World for the SNES, her in-game appearances had her proper hair color. On a similar note, her dress had always been depicted as pink in video game artwork, although because of the aforementioned graphical limitations, Peach's on-screen sprite in Super Mario Bros. and Super Mario Bros.: The Lost Levels depicted her as wearing a white dress with red highlights; this depiction of her old dress would later be reused for her Fire form in Super Mario 3D World. She only gained a pink dress in-game starting with the overseas version of Super Mario Bros 2. Peach's classic main dress had a normal pink high collar, a sash around the waist instead of panniers, and was darker pink from the hem to her knees, but otherwise does not differ greatly from the modern/current main dress introduced with the GameCube-era games, starting with Super Mario Sunshine and Mario Party 4, although the subsequent Paper Mario: The Thousand-Year Door installment marked the original dress's final appearance, with it being retained for the Nintendo Switch remake as well. Although the key artwork featured Peach in the Japanese versions of Super Mario Bros., the instruction manuals for both the Famicom and NES versions of the game hid her sprite behind a question mark in order to keep her identity a surprise for players as a way to motivate them into completing the game.

Miyamoto came up with her name by associating princesses with girls, girls with the color pink, and pink with peaches. In Japan, her name has always been Princess Peach (ピーチ姫 Pīchi-hime), but in the West, she was originally known as "Princess Toadstool", due to Nintendo of America renaming her when localizing Super Mario Bros., feeling that "Peach" was irrelevant to the theme of the Mushroom Kingdom. In 1993, the English version of Yoshi's Safari marked the first time that the name "Princess Peach" was used outside of Japan; however, the name did not become standardized until Super Mario 64. Games as of Mario Kart 64 use Peach as her prominent name. Certain contemporary sources reconcile the two names by listing her full name as "Peach Toadstool", including subsequent re-releases of Super Mario 64, such as the international, Shindō Pak Taiō Version and the DS remake, which had the princess signing her letter using both "Toadstool" and "Peach". For the most part, however, the "Toadstool" name is hardly used outside of remakes and re-releases of older titles, which most times retain the original localized text. She, along with her Toad subjects, is the only major character that no longer uses her original localized name. However, Super Smash Bros. for Wii U refers to "Princess Toadstool" as a name Peach went by in one of the in-game tips, and in the North American version her title on the Boxing Ring stage is "Princess of Toadstools". On a similar note, although she was mostly referred to as Princess Toadstool in various countries outside the United States in most localizations (or "Princess Mushroom" in some cases), the Danish dub for The Adventures of Super Mario Bros. 3 had changed her name to Prinsesse Slørhat, which translated to "Princess Cortinarius", referring to a genus of poisonous mushrooms. Likewise, the Italian dub for the entire DIC cartoon line also referred to her as "Principessa Amarena" or "Princess Cherry".
Her name when translated into Japanese is normally ピーチ姫 (Pīchi-hime). However, the other translation as プリンセスピーチ (Purinsesu Pīchi) only officially exists in the Japanese titles of the games Super Princess Peach and Princess Peach: Showtime! as well as in the Japanese name of The Princess Peach from Paper Mario: The Origami King.

Following a frequent role of being the damsel-of-distress kidnapped by Bowser, Princess Peach has appeared in almost every single piece of Super Mario media from the very start. Her first appearance, chronologically, is in Yoshi's Island DS as one of the seven star children. Though Peach has the role of being held captive by Bowser, she is also seen allying with him as shown in several spin-off series. As with Mario, Peach can be seen in a wide bevy of cameos, even outside her own franchise.

Peach is a young woman with long blonde hair, fair skin and blue eyes, framed by six lashes (three or four in other artwork) and small, thin eyebrows. She has an oval face with a pointed chin, a triangular nose and full pink lips. Her hair has a triangular bang in the center of her forehead, two rows of flips on her back, and two split sideburns framing her face. Due to her lithe and slim figure, she is classified as lighter weight than Mario or Luigi in various games such as in the Mario Kart series despite being taller than them.
Peach usually wears a pink floor-length dress with puffy sleeves, magenta panniers at the waist, a high collar and a frill of the same color at the hem. Most games include a white petticoat under her dress. From Super Mario Bros. to Mario Kart: Super Circuit, her dress had a band around her waist rather than panniers and was colored magenta from below her knees. This appearance was brought back in Paper Mario: The Thousand-Year Door and its remake. Peach wears a golden crown with red and blue gems, round blue earrings, and an oval blue brooch on her chest. She wears long white opera gloves and red high heels. In Princess Peach: Showtime!, princess seams are added to the bodice. Her dress is far more elaborately designed in recent Super Smash Bros. titles, as well as Super Smash Bros. Melee giving her dress an original design, but is otherwise the same; the Super Smash Bros. games have also given her minor proportion changes such as the size of her head and the thickness of her eyelashes.
Peach is usually depicted as taller than most human characters, exceeded only by Rosalina, Pauline, and Waluigi. In the pamphlet for Super Mario Bros.: Peach-hime Kyūshutsu Dai Sakusen!, her height is given as 160 cm (5 ft 3 in.) and her weight as 41 kg (90 lbs.) In the original and Super Mario Bros. Deluxe versions of Super Mario Bros. and Super Mario Bros.: The Lost Levels, however, she is depicted as being shorter than Super Mario/Super Luigi (with the difference in size being enough that she has to stand on her tip-toes to kiss Mario/Luigi if they are in Super/Fire form in the Deluxe version). However, in the Deluxe version, there are full scenes with Peach lowering herself to make eye contact with Mario while being eye-level with Luigi. In Super Mario Bros. Wonder, Super Mario and Super Peach are now depicted as approximately the same height, with Super Luigi being taller.
Though no fixed age has been revealed for Peach in the video games, Mario & Luigi: Partners in Time indicates that she is at least just slightly younger than Mario and Luigi, being the only one of the three to have not yet developed proper motor or speech skills as a baby. Taking into consideration the statement that Mario and Luigi are between their early and mid twenties, a relatively wider and more exact age gap is present in early animated media; the pamphlet for Super Mario Bros.: Peach-hime Kyūshutsu Dai Sakusen! states her age as 16 (compared to Mario and Luigi, who are respectively stated to be around 25 and 23), while the writers' bible for The Adventures of Super Mario Bros. 3 states that the DIC cartoons' version of the princess is 17.

Princess Peach has been in various outfits, most frequently in the sports games. In Mario Golf and Mario Tennis for the Nintendo 64, Peach's sports dress was simply a shorter, sleeveless version of her usual dress. Starting with the GameCube Mario sports games, however, her outfits have more variety. In Mario Golf: Toadstool Tour and Mario Power Tennis, the outfit that she wears is a sleeveless minidress. In other traditional active sports installments such as Mario Hoops 3-on-3, the Mario Baseball games, and Mario Sports Mix, her outfit consists of a two-piece athletic uniform. She has received different sports outfits in some games such as Mario & Sonic at the Olympic Games Tokyo 2020, where she has different clothes to suit each sport ranging from surf wear to jockey apparel to leotards, and the Mario Strikers games, where she wears armor to fit the more physical nature of the games.
In Mario Kart Wii and Mario Kart 8 / Mario Kart 8 Deluxe, Peach wears a pink jumpsuit when riding motorbikes and ATVs. This jumpsuit is also seen in The Super Mario Bros. Movie.
Outside of sports, Peach occasionally changes her outfit to fit the occasion. In Mario Party 2, she wears five distinct outfits fitting into five of the six themes for Mario Land, as Bowser Land has the characters in their original clothes. In Super Mario Sunshine, Peach wears a lighter, sleeveless version of her dress and a hair in a ponytail; she wears a ponytail in subsequent Mario Kart games, starting with Mario Kart: Double Dash!!, and various sports games. In Super Mario Odyssey, aside from her traditional pink dress, which only appears in the prologue and when encountering her at Mushroom Kingdom in the post-game, she has a wide variety of outfits, such as the wedding dress she wore for most of the game, as well as various outfits she wore in the post-game, with the specific type depending on the world visited. Most of these outfits have reappeared as high-tier rewards in Mario Kart Tour.
Within the Super Smash Bros. series, Princess Peach comes in several alternate colors, usually changing her clothing, but she has a Princess Daisy palette in Super Smash Bros. Melee that even changes her hair color and complexion.
Peach has also worn alternate outfits in promotions. One of the earliest was Peach in a kimono in All Night Nippon: Super Mario Bros. to promote Japanese holiday. Although this particular outfit has not appeared in any games since, Peach wore similar kimono outfits in an advertisement for Nintendo's involvement in the Kyoto Cross Media Experience 2009, a Club Nintendo calendar award, a New Year 2017 wallpaper (which was reused from artwork from the Kyoto Cross Media Experience 2009), in Bowser's Kingdom in Super Mario Odyssey, and as a driver variant in Mario Kart Tour (as well as a pink yukata partly derived from her Bowser's Kingdom attire).
In Princess Peach: Showtime!, Peach has 12 different costumes she can transform into: Swordfighter, Detective, Patissiere, Kung Fu, Ninja, Cowgirl, Figure Skater, Dashing Thief, Mermaid, Mighty, Radiant and Super Radiant.

Peach is shown to be a sweet, kind, polite, and optimistic person, while also being classy and sociable, with more and more portrayals further displaying her as clever and adventurous. She apologizes excessively for getting into trouble and requiring Mario to rescue her. She even shows concern and compassion towards her enemies frequently such as saving Mimi in Super Paper Mario or making a thank-you cake for Bowser in Mario & Luigi's Bowser Inside Story, even after Mario and Luigi defeat Bowser in a fight that Bowser started. She can sometimes be assertive when it comes to standing up for her friends; she managed to outright resist Nastasia's mind control abilities during the "wedding" in Super Paper Mario, which Nastasia indicated was unprecedented. In Paper Mario: The Thousand-Year Door, she manages to resist Shadow Queen's possession long enough to not only offer words of encouragement to Mario and his party, but also heal them (with the Shadow Queen, due to possessing Peach's body, being forced to go along with it). Her innate characteristics are often key to the plot of several games, such as her abilities to activate the Beanstar and Dark Star.
Largely because of her frequency of being kidnapped, she has been the subject of a running gag in throughout the series where several characters refer to the frequency of her abductions. Even Peach herself has referred to her kidnapping in New Super Mario Bros. Wii as a "recent kidnapping". Some characters referred to her even being useless, such as Snake in Super Smash Bros. Brawl and Pit (and to a certain extent, Viridi) in Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS / Wii U. But while Peach is often considered the archetypal video game damsel in distress, she is often shown actively working against her captors, such as tossing Super Mushrooms to Mario during the final fight in Super Mario World, sneaking around searching for power-ups and/or information to send to Mario in games such as Super Mario Galaxy and the Paper Mario series, and even attempting to escape her confinement in Super Mario 3D Land.

While Peach occasionally seems naïve, she is generally level-headed, knows when to take charge, and shows more common sense and observance than those around her, such as noticing a Mario doppelganger in the Isle Delfino vacation guide video's background in Super Mario Sunshine, insisting that an emergency meeting continues even after it is briefly interrupted by Bowser and deducing what Fawful was planning regarding her in Mario & Luigi: Bowser's Inside Story, and talking a stubborn Bowser into joining her and Mario in Super Paper Mario. She often acts as a peacemaker; for example, in Super Smash Bros. Brawl's story mode, she offers tea to Fox and Sheik in order to stop them from fighting, and later converts Mr. Game & Watch to their cause. In the Super Mario World cartoon, she is a motherly figure to the young Yoshi and Oogtar, and in the cartoons overall, she is practical and generous to a fault, such as trying to convince the Mario Bros. to return home, despite the fact that King Koopa is still after her. She also has a feisty side, which shines through particularly well in her comic appearances. Besides sports, Peach is also into ballroom dancing, video games, and gardening, and seems to enjoy exploring and trying new things.
Although she is generally depicted as kind, sociable, and generous in most games, the Mario Strikers games do show a slightly more arrogant and petulant side to Peach, including her pitching a fit to one of her teammates and eventually jumping in a tantrum if the opposing team scores, while Mario Strikers Charged in particular shows her having a diva-like side, with her being eager to get photographed and striking poses; in Mario Strikers: Battle League, though, she regains her composure. A similar temperamental nature can be observed if the player fails to flip food in time and have it land on the floor in the Modern versions of Chef, where Peach will either stomp her foot in frustration (Game & Watch Gallery 2) or otherwise put her hand over her head and scream repeatedly in frustration before proceeding to wince (Game & Watch Gallery 4), in either case causing Yoshi to crouch down in fear.
In Super Mario Bros. 2, Super Mario RPG: Legend of the Seven Stars, Super Paper Mario, Super Mario 3D World, Super Mario Run, Mario + Rabbids: Kingdom Battle, Mario + Rabbids: Sparks of Hope, Super Mario Bros. Wonder, and most notably, Super Princess Peach and Princess Peach: Showtime!, Peach shows the braver side of her personality; participating as a fellow heroine, or in the latter two cases, as the sole heroine, single-handedly saving the day.
In The Super Mario Bros. Movie, Peach's personality was drastically revamped. She is considerably more assertive and tomboyish, and a born leader for her kingdom, keeping her role as a caring figure towards the Toads, albeit in a more active way. She is not soft-spoken like her game counterpart but has moments of kindness, as she takes Mario with her to the Jungle Kingdom, despite failing the obstacle course multiple times. Additionally, she reluctantly accepts to Bowser's proposal as Kamek tortures Toad, on the condition that he doesn't hurt her people.

Early in her history, while Peach did speak, it was largely done via text dialogue. It was not until Mario is Missing where Peach got some dialogue, and it would not be until Super Mario 64 onward that she maintained having voiced dialogue. In Super Mario 64 and the international versions of Mario Kart 64, she largely spoke with a mature, feminine tone, though in the Japanese version of Mario Kart 64 as well as all versions of Mario Party, 2, and 3, and Super Mario Advance, Peach spoke with a slightly higher-pitched, somewhat shrill tone, and also possessing a slight Italian accent in the case of the last game. Starting with Super Smash Bros. Melee and Super Mario Sunshine, she was given a very soft, high-pitched voice. In the Japanese versions of certain games, such as Itadaki Street DS and Fortune Street, Peach tends to end her sentences with "ですわ" (desu wa), a stereotypical trait in Japanese media reserved for noble upper-class women and even simply haughty and arrogant women. In Princess Peach: Showtime!, Peach's voice varies from her usual tone to a deeper one, similar to the one used in her earlier voiced appearances.

Like other Super Mario characters, Peach can Jump and Ground Pound; she also slaps opponents, which is her specialty, rather than punching. While not very strong physically, she makes up for it in technique and skill, and many games reveal her to be fast and agile as well. She is also shown to be very graceful, often embellishing attacks and victory scenes alike with elegant movements, twirls, and dances. With the release of Super Mario 3D World, Peach is able to use power-ups, such as the Fire Flower, Super Leaf, Super Bell, and Double Cherry, among other power-ups and items. She also has the unique ability to float in mid-air by means of her skirt, first seen in Super Mario Bros. 2, and can also use her parasol to achieve this same effect. This ability returns in Super Mario 3D World (where it is also revealed that Peach can still glide even when she does not have a skirt on) and the Super Smash Bros. series, and Peach is also shown using it in The Super Mario Bros. Movie. In New Super Mario Bros., New Super Mario Bros. Wii, and New Super Mario Bros. 2, she is shown to be able to slow down her descent from a fairly large height.

In Super Mario RPG: Legend of the Seven Stars Peach is shown to have impressive healing abilities like Therapy and Group Hug, and this ability is seen again in Paper Mario: The Thousand-Year Door when she overcomes the Shadow Queen's mind control over her to heal Mario and his party. She has occasionally been shown to have telepathic powers, like in Super Mario Advance 4: Super Mario Bros. 3, when she calls out to Mario as a hologram in Dark Land, or when she and Starlow combine powers to drain and then send Bowser flying in the beginning if Mario & Luigi: Bowser's Inside Story. Additionally, in Super Smash Bros. Brawl, her Final Smash, Peach Blossom, puts her opponents to sleep. In Super Smash Bros. Melee, Peach has a powerful special attack called the Peach Bomber, where hip-checking her opponents engulfs them in an explosion. Earlier, Super Mario RPG also linked her with explosions, as one of her attacks, Psych Bomb, involved throwing bombs at her opponents, and a similar scene occurred in the Super Mario Adventures comic, when she used a barrage of bombs against the Koopalings. In Mario & Luigi: Bowser's Inside Story, she was also shown to have enough strength to not just telekinetically throw Bowser out of her castle, but throw him far into the forest outside Toad Town. However, it's implied that she was only able to do this with Starlow's help, largely because Starlow had weakened Bowser earlier. She also was powerful enough to counteract Bowser's magic, which was the initial reason why Bowser had abducted her in Super Mario Bros.
In general, however, Peach's special abilities and powers usually involve hearts. They are mostly seen in the sports installments including, but not limited to, Mario Power Tennis (Sweet Kiss Return), Mario Hoops 3-on-3 (Heart Shot), Mario Golf: Toadstool Tour and Super Mario Strikers (heart trails follow the balls after special hits). Her special item in Mario Kart: Double Dash!! is also a heart, and allows her to co-opt others' attacks. Besides hearts alone, Peach will sometimes use the power of love to combat her opponents in sports, such as her Super Peach Spin offensive shot in Mario Power Tennis, or how her Heart Swing in Mario Super Sluggers dazes any male player who tries to catch it, while the other females are immune. In addition, many of her abilities in Super Mario RPG have a heart as her magic symbol. Additionally, the Super Smash Bros. series as of Brawl has generally given her moves more of an embellished feminine flair, such as replacing certain moves and adding details like ribbons, rainbows, sparkles, and hearts to others (including replacing the Peach Bomber's explosion with hearts).
Aside from her magical abilities, she is also shown in a few games to be a good chef, or at least a good baker, such as the Modern version of Chef in some of the Game & Watch Gallery games, as well as Paper Mario, when she has to bake a cake for Gourmet Guy in exchange for information regarding Mario. In addition, incidental dialogue from Toad after getting a star on the Peach's Birthday Cake board from Mario Party revealed that she was responsible for the titular cake's creation. She also was shown to be good at chemistry, having created an invisibility potion with the help of TEC in an attempt to retrieve vital information on the X-Nauts' plans from Grodus's office. 
During her trek on Vibe Island in Super Princess Peach, she also was shown to utilize various Vibe Powers, with Gloom making her run faster and use tears to grow plants, Rage making her shake the ground upon landing and burn hot enough to melt ice, Calm letting her heal herself, and Joy making her fly and spin foes and objects with a whirlwind.

The Mushroom King as well as the Mushroom Queen are the only confirmed members of her family in the games, although very little is known about them. According to his depiction in the Nintendo Comics System, while he does embarrass her with his general foolishness, she knows he has good intentions and loves him dearly. Other media have shed light on Peach's other relatives, such as Gramma Toadstool, another grandmother, and her mother. In Mario Superstar Baseball, a Lakitu mistakenly refers to Toadsworth as Peach's grandpa, but in reality, while he is very protective of her and has cared for her ever since she was a baby, he is actually her longtime steward and has no actual family relation. Similar confusion surrounds an elderly chambermaid Toad referred to as Grandma by Peach in Super Mario RPG: Legend of the Seven Stars; however, it is most likely that this was a term of endearment carried over from the Japanese version, where it is more common to use familial terms for non-relatives. In the Mario Kart: Double Dash!! and Mario Kart Wii official guides published by Prima and licensed by Nintendo, Daisy's biographies state that Peach is her cousin, but that statement has yet to be proven in the games themselves. Similarly, according to the PRIMA Official Game Guide for Super Mario Galaxy, Rosalina was initially intended to be a relative of Peach's, hence her similar physical appearance to Peach, although this concept was dropped. In the Amada Anime Series: Super Mario Bros. adaptation of Momotarō, Ojīsan and Obāsan are the parents of Princess Peach. In the Super Mario Land 4 manga, a descendant of her is seen working for the Federation Army, alongside Mario's, during the event of the Solar Striker game.

Mario, being her most frequent rescuer, is Peach's love interest. The two are shown to have been close friends since childhood in Mario & Luigi: Partners in Time, and the comic "Warios Weihnachtsmärchen," published in the German Club Nintendo magazine, reveals that they spent their graduation ball in school together. Peach has sent Toads to help Luigi when Mario disappears in Luigi's Mansion, and she herself rescues all three of them from Bowser in Super Princess Peach, as well as saving Mario and one of his allies from the Icicle Golem in Mario + Rabbids Kingdom Battle. In Super Mario Bros.: Peach-hime Kyūshutsu Dai Sakusen!, Peach is willing to put herself into a forced marriage with Bowser if it means saving Mario's life. They also share good chemistry together as "buddy players" in Mario Superstar Baseball and Mario Super Sluggers.

Numerous games, alternate media, and supplemental material depict Mario and Peach as having mutual romantic affection for each other as well as a friendship. In Mario Party 5, Peach and Mario are called "Cutest Couple," and the official guide for Mario Party 8 states that Peach is the apple of Mario's eye. In the official guide of Yoshi's Island DS, the description for Baby Mario and Baby Peach: Dynamic Duo mentions the "romantic entanglements" in their adult lives, while the official Mario Kart: Double Dash!! guide reads, "Aw, isn’t that cute? Mario and Peach are together again." In Super Mario RPG: Legend of the Seven Stars, Peach calls Mario her "knight in shining armor," and in the first Paper Mario, one of the Toads tells Mario to take Peach on a date to Shooting Star Summit. In Super Princess Peach, after Peach rescues Mario, she enthusiastically calls and runs towards him and happily dances with him in celebration. Rosalina refers to Peach as Mario's "special one" in Super Mario Galaxy, with the two seen holding hands toward the ending of the game. In Super Mario Galaxy 2, Lubba and two other Lumas refer to Peach as Mario's "special one." Mario Power Tennis even goes as far as showing Mario himself telling Peach of his love for her in Peach's victory scene, which she responds to with a smile and a blown kiss. Also, in Mario's victory scene in Mario Power Tennis, Peach gives him a small kiss on his cheek. Further, in Super Mario Odyssey, after kidnapping her, Bowser declares his intention to make Peach marry him, and Mario's main motivation is to stop Bowser from taking Peach's hand in marriage by force. While Peach does care for Mario, there are times where she gets annoyed if Mario misbehaves. A notable example of this is in the ending to Super Mario Odyssey, where, after Mario attempts to prevent Bowser from getting her hand in marriage by behaving in a similar aggressive manner, she shouts, "Enough!" and storms off in a huff, although she nonetheless calms down enough to tell Mario and Bowser that they should all go back home, and the post-game shows she forgave Mario for the earlier incident.
Peach's obedient servant is Toad, who dotes upon and attempts to protect her despite his fear of Bowser, often getting himself kidnapped along with her in the process. Toad's collectible card from Super Mario Galaxy states that he even formed the Toad Brigade and followed Peach and Bowser to space in order to try to save her, while in numerous other games, he is the one to go alert Mario about Peach's disappearance. They have good chemistry in the Mario Baseball games, and their team names in the Mario Party series include "Royal Family" and "Loyal Friends." In the Super Smash Bros. games, Peach holds Toad in front of herself for protection, though he is shown to be reluctant and attacks out of fear. In Super Smash Bros. Ultimate, however, Toad acts like a proper bodyguard and blocks opponents off from Peach.
Another of Peach's closest friends is Luigi, who often helps Mario rescue her. There has been inconsistencies whenever Luigi is attracted to Peach, as in the platformers, Peach kisses Luigi the same way she kisses Mario, and he reacts the same way. In Mario Power Tennis, when winning a trophy, Peach blows kisses to Mario and Luigi, who both swoon in love. However, individual interaction in other games show that there are no romantic feelings between them. The two share good chemistry in Mario Superstar Baseball but not in its sequel, Mario Super Sluggers.

Peach and Daisy have been shown to be best friends since Daisy first became playable in Mario Tennis for the Nintendo 64. If something involves partners in the Super Mario spin-offs, the two will usually be a team, from various sports games to Mario Kart: Double Dash!!. Mario Super Sluggers is the first game to show the two sharing dialog, wherein Peach reveals that she has concerns for Daisy's welfare. Nintendo's Mario Power Tennis website says that Daisy is Peach's "sister in arms," a term used to describe a close friendship, and while the Prima guides for Mario Kart: Double Dash!! and Mario Kart Wii say that they are cousins, no known first-party material has ever confirmed or denied this. Prior to Daisy's comeback appearance in the games and by extension the establishment of their being best friends, however, a 4-koma segment of the Super Mario-kun manga depicts Peach as being jealous of Daisy receiving attention from Mario to the extent that she throws a mushroom at him out of frustration.
Yoshi is another one of Peach's closest friends, who saved her as a baby alongside the other babies in Yoshi's Island DS. The two share good chemistry is most games, and he has also helped Mario save her in a number of games, including Super Mario 64 DS. He also helps Mario save Peach's friends at her request in Yoshi's Safari.
Peach is on friendly terms with numerous other characters. In the baseball games, she shares good chemistry with Toadette, who is on her starting team, and in Mario Party DS, she gives Toadette a set of touching trumpets. While Peach and Rosalina did not speak in the Super Mario Galaxy games, the two were shown to become fast friends upon meeting in issue 38 of the Super Mario-kun manga, and they were also shown to work together in Super Mario 3D World. While Wario has sometimes shown antagonism towards Peach, such as in Mario Power Tennis, he helps save her in Super Mario 64 DS and is invited to have cake as thanks. He also attempts to retrieve a stolen statue of Peach in Wario Land: Super Mario Land 3 (albeit with the selfish motivation of trying to hold it for ransom to gain his own castle), and he appears to have a crush on her in the Mario & Wario arc of the Super Mario Adventures comic, seeing as he tries to outdo Mario and buy Peach's prize item, a Samus Doll, for her birthday. Furthermore, the comic "Warios Weihnachtsmärchen" reveals that Peach turned Wario down and instead accompanied Mario to their high school graduation ball.

Initially, Peach was unable to get along with her Rabbid counterpart, due to the latter feeling jealousy towards the former's relationship with Mario. Rabbid Peach has tried to get Mario's attention several times and got frustrated when Peach approached them. When Mario and company came to the revamped Mushroom Kingdom, Rabbid Peach looked at Peach with disgust, to the point of touching her dress and then looking away. Peach herself does not show animosity towards her Rabbid counterpart, and she is willing to cooperate with her to stop the Megabug. Although not fond of her counterpart, Rabbid Peach nonetheless has some respect for her, such as placing the Icicle Golem's head in place before stepping aside while making a gesture indicating that the Rabbid's counterpart is free to kick it back into the freezer. After defeating the said villain, Peach constructs a new statue of Rabbid Peach holding a Power Star, much to the latter's delight. Then, Rabbid Peach invites all of her teammates, including Peach, to take a group selfie. Promotional artwork for Mario + Rabbids Kingdom Battle shows Peach and Rabbid Peach taking a selfie together, with the former winking and putting up a V sign.
The opening of Mario & Sonic at the Olympic Winter Games and the story mode for the Nintendo 3DS version of Mario & Sonic at the London 2012 Olympic Games show Peach, alongside Daisy, being great friends with Amy Rose and Blaze the Cat, having a special victory animation with the former in the sequels while sharing a similar rational with the latter.

Bowser has repeatedly kidnapped Peach and invaded her kingdom to rule the world but also as part of his attraction to her. Peach, however, strongly dislikes Bowser for harming her close friends and putting her into distress. She is frightened or apprehensive of Bowser, such as being startled at Mario upon seeing Bowser on his side in Super Mario RPG and sobbing over her captivity in the Super Mario anime movie. Peach discovers his feelings toward her in Paper Mario, but in other games, Peach immediately notices his attraction, such as his attempting to get her to kiss him in public in Mario Power Tennis. When the situation calls for it, however, she will sweet-talk him to persuade him into teaming up with her and Mario in Super Paper Mario, and she occasionally shows him goodwill, such as baking him a thank-you cake at the end of Mario & Luigi: Bowser's Inside Story; she has also hesitated when she had to leave him to his presumed demise in Super Paper Mario.
In Super Paper Mario, Nastasia uses mind control to force Peach to marry the willing Bowser in order to fulfill an ancient prophesy, but while Peach considers the wedding a sham and refuses to acknowledge it, Bowser insists on calling her his wife throughout the game, even as they team up to defeat Count Bleck. Peach also rejected Bowser's advances to marriage in the Super Mario Adventures comic and Super Mario Odyssey.
In Super Mario Sunshine, Bowser had lied to his son that Peach was his mother, and while it was later revealed that Bowser Jr. knew it was a lie all along, he went along with it anyway, and even continued to affectionately refer to her as "mama" in Mario Superstar Baseball. Likewise, Peach, when Bowser Jr. revealed their "relationship" to both Mario and her, expressed shock and confusion at her being his mother.
She also held some animosity towards Mimi, especially after the latter implied that Peach was only good for getting herself kidnapped. This resulted in her being outraged enough at her insult that she insisted on fighting her alone, even snapping at Mario and Luigi to leave before fighting her. Nonetheless, despite her animosity, she risked her life to save Mimi when they were in danger of falling due to the Void's increasing power.

Peach is widely respected in the Mushroom Kingdom and beyond. Her Toads are very loyal, and her citizens adore her. Many people in the Mushroom Kingdom and beyond buy and even collect merchandise of her. In Paper Mario, there is a "Secret Sale" that offers "beautiful photos of Princess Peach", and a Peach doll named Dolly is owned by Goombaria and longed for by Jr. Troopa. In Paper Mario: The Thousand-Year Door, there is a Koopa Troopa Peach fan in Petalburg who collects Peach merchandise, including pictures, photos, and even a life-sized print he keeps at his window, which he claims he would risk life and limb to protect.

Since her debut, Peach has had as her theme a repetitive 4-bar musical theme, with it being expanded in VS. Super Mario Bros., Super Mario Bros.: The Lost Levels, and Super Mario Bros. 3 to feature chimes nearing the end before it loops. The Super Mario Bros.: The Lost Levels version was what Koji Kondo envisioned for the theme originally, but it had to be cut short due to memory limits in the original game. In later games, the music varied between either something akin to Richard Wagner's Bridal Chorus (Paper Mario) or ballet-style music (New Super Mario Bros. series, Paper Mario: Color Splash, and Super Mario Odyssey).

Princess Peach's bios typically describe her as the ruler of the Mushroom Kingdom and the Toads, as well as mentioning her tendency to get kidnapped by Bowser. In most Super Mario sports games, she is classed as a Technique type character, and in the Mario Kart series, she is classed as either a lightweight or middleweight character. Her emblem is her crown.

The following voice actresses have portrayed Princess Peach during the course of Super Mario franchise history:

Mami Yamase, a pop singer, voiced Peach in Super Mario Bros.: Peach-hime Kyūshutsu Dai Sakusen!, marking the first time the character was given an official voice.
In the foreign-language dubs of the DIC cartoons, Peach was dubbed by the following actresses:

- General quote used whenever rescued from Bowser or another enemy in a game

- When rescued from Booster in Super Mario RPG: Legend of the Seven Stars.

- When spoken to on the Delfino Airstrip in Super Mario Sunshine.

- Commanding Mario and Luigi to let her fight Mimi on her own in Super Paper Mario.

- Victory quote in the Super Smash Bros. series.

- When encountered in the Mushroom Kingdom in the postgame of Super Mario Odyssey.