Princess Daisy, or casually Daisy, is the princess of Sarasaland and a recurring character in the Super Mario franchise. She is an energetic and enthusiastic princess who can be slightly tomboyish. Mario once saved her and her kingdom from the rule of Tatanga in 1989's Super Mario Land on the Game Boy. Daisy would not make a major appearance again until Mario Tennis on the Nintendo 64 in 2000, and has since made relatively frequent appearances in games of various genres. She is also Luigi's love interest and Peach's best friend. Her traits and abilities are often flower-based.

For Super Mario Land, the developers wanted the game to take place in a new setting, far away from the Mushroom Kingdom, and Daisy was created to fill the damsel-in-distress role. Sarasaland was named after a type of floral design, and Daisy was created with a matching flower motif. Despite Daisy's role, she was prescribed a unique personality, which has continued to be part of her defining traits in subsequent appearances.
After an early hiatus in the 1990s, Daisy was reintroduced in Mario Tennis. The planning department at Camelot wanted more characters with bodies better suited for the real-life sport than what most Mario characters provided, and they found Daisy to be a valuable addition when Nintendo suggested her. This was also after Nintendo turned down the game's assistant director, Yusuke Sugimoto, proposing a Wario-like version of Peach because they thought it would not be cute. Since then, Daisy has made regular appearances as a playable character in most of the Super Mario multiplayer games, including Mario Party, Mario Kart, and Super Mario sports titles.
After many of Daisy's appearances being limited to spinoff titles, she was made playable in the Super Mario series in the mobile title Super Mario Run with an update, albeit only after beating World 30 in Remix 10. She was subsequently made playable in the console platformer Super Mario Bros. Wonder, where she is available right from the start.

Daisy makes her debut in Super Mario Land. Tatanga, a space alien, invades Daisy's nation, Sarasaland, in order to marry her and make her his queen. He kidnaps Daisy and hypnotizes Sarasaland's inhabitants, turning them into the game's enemies. Mario comes to rescue Daisy and bring peace to Sarasaland by traveling through each of its four kingdoms in pursuit of defeating Tatanga. The first three worlds conclude with an enemy disguising themselves as Daisy to trick Mario, specifically the Birabuto, Muda, and Easton Kingdoms, which end with a Fly, a Gunion, and a Kumo posing as her, respectively. Chai Kingdom is where the actual Daisy is rescued, after Tatanga is defeated by Mario, and Daisy thanks Mario before they fly away in the Sky Pop II.
Though her name is correctly "Princess Daisy" in the rest of the manual, Daisy is referred to as "Daisy Princess" on page thirteen. This is likely because of the Japanese styling for Daisy's name, Deiji-hime, placing the word for "Daisy" (Deiji) before the word for "Princess" (hime).

Mario can transform into Daisy using a Mystery Mushroom in Super Mario Maker. Her costume was made available with the release of the Adventure in Sarasaland event course on January 14, 2016. She is one of the few characters in the game whose costume unlock is incompatible with their respective amiibo, and instead she can only be unlocked by completing the accompanying Super Mario Land event course; this is because her amiibo was not released until later in 2016. As with many other character transformations, Daisy's uses voice clips from previous games. Upon collecting the Mystery Mushroom, Daisy shouts, "Yippee!", while the normal Super Mario Bros. power-up sound effect plays. Her "course clear" and "lose a life" jingles come from Super Mario Land, the latter sound also having a voice clip over it. The jumping and defeated sound effects are also replaced with voice clips; the former has her occasionally saying, "Woohoo!", and the latter has her screaming, "No!" Pressing  makes Daisy perform a taunt, grunting and facing the screen with her hands folded on her lap like her sprite's pose in Super Mario Land.

Daisy is a playable character in Super Mario Run, as of the version 3.0.4 update. The update opens the Remix 10 pipe, and Toad informs the player that Daisy is lost within the world, giving the player the objective of rescuing Daisy and returning her. Clearing short, consecutive courses advances Mario through spaces on a map of numbered areas. Daisy is unlocked once Area 30 is cleared; where she is found and curtsies Mario before thanking him. Daisy's unique ability is the double jump - after jumping once, she can jump again in midair to boost her jump height and distance a bit.
A Daisy statue of 5🌟 rarity and a Gold Daisy statue of 6🌟 rarity can be acquired by playing through Remix 10 mode and getting them from the Bonus ? Block as building items used to decorate the Mushroom Kingdom. Upon defeating Bowser in World Tour mode's World 6-4 with Daisy, she will be seen rescuing Toad instead of Peach. As with the other playable characters, Daisy can be seen wearing her own headphones when the player mutes the game's music to listen to their own.

Daisy is mentioned in Super Mario Odyssey. If the player scans the Daisy amiibo while talking to Uncle Amiibo, he will mention that Daisy is looking for clues on the Power Moon locations.

Daisy makes her first playable appearance in a Super Mario platformer released on a Nintendo console in Super Mario Bros. Wonder. Unlike in Super Mario Run, Daisy is available right from the start. In gameplay, Daisy shares the same abilities as the other characters (aside from the Yoshis and Nabbit). This game marks the first time Daisy can be seen using power-ups other than the Super Mushroom or Super Star. With the corresponding items, she can transform into Fire Daisy, Elephant Daisy, Bubble Daisy, and Drill Daisy.
Additionally, Giselle Fernandez makes their debut as Daisy's new voice actor in this game, replacing longtime Daisy voice actress Deanna Mustard after over two decades. 
The game's director, Shiro Mouri, revealed in an interview that Daisy was added as a playable character in part to resolve a conflict between his two daughters, who would often fight over whom would play as Peach in various games of the Super Mario franchise.

The first volume of the Super Mario Kodansha manga anthology takes from the plot of Super Mario Land. Daisy and Peach are friends until they become rivals after Daisy falls in love with Mario. Tatanga captures Daisy and Peach follows Mario's rescue of her while disguised as a robot to make sure Mario does not have an affair with Daisy. Daisy later makes small appearances in future volumes that portray her rivalry with Peach.
In the Mario Open Golf story, Daisy plays golf with Mario, Luigi, and Peach. A disguised King Koopa shows up to trick them into playing a high-stakes golf tournament with pro-golfers Tony and Billy. There are signs of Daisy becoming interested in Luigi as he is a much better golfer than Mario, who has to resort to cheating.

In the Super Mario Land 2: 6 Golden Coins story, Wario captures Daisy. Mario and Peach's rescue efforts are often frustrated by the Witch, who plays tricks on them such as transforming into Daisy. Wario manipulates Daisy into becoming「ワルデイジー」(Warudeijī, "Waldaisy"), which Tatanga believes would make her want to marry him, but she instead brainwashes the natives of his planet into serving Wario, though he seems oblivious to her intentions. Daisy seduces Luigi into becoming「ワルイージ」(Waruīji, "Waluigi") and even uses evil energy to turn Peach into「ワルピーチ」(Warupīchi, "Walpeach"), but overestimates Peach's capacity for evil as she lacks badness in her heart. The spell is broken when Mario kisses Daisy, and she joins the heroes in defeating Wario. Later, when Wario attempts to destroy Mario's castle, she arrives with the reformed Tatanga and throws her earrings at Mario and Luigi, turning them into Fire Mario and Fire Luigi.
In the Super Mario Land 3: Wario Land story, Daisy appears as a recurring character, aiding Mario, Peach, Luigi, and Wario as they try to reclaim the treasure stolen by Captain Syrup. She first shows up after Wario's rowboat capsizes, appearing as a mermaid known as the "spirit of the seas," giving Wario the three Power Up Pots. However, it is later revealed that this was Daisy disguising herself as part of a plot to gain Mario's affections, hoping that if Wario looked cooler Peach would fall in love with him instead of Mario.
Daisy later reappears on Kitchen Island while Mario and Luigi travel there to investigate the cause of a mysterious fog that has spread over the Mushroom Kingdom, making the citizens all fall ill. She assists Mario in stopping the source of the poisonous fog, Debidebi Daiō, who was released after Mario and friends destroyed a statue in Stove Canyon. However, Debidebi Daiō falls in love with Daisy, sending the Genie to kidnap her. While kidnapped, Daisy receives a vision from Peach, who reveals that Daisy is in fact, an alter ego of herself. She asks Daisy to save the world in her stead, as she is incapacitated by her illness. However, she adds that after doing so, Daisy will disappear. Eventually, Mario rescues Daisy and defeats Debidebi Daiō, but the poison gas remains spread across the world. Knowing what she has to do, Daisy states she knows a way to still save the world, thanking Mario for all the wonderful memories and kissing him before saying goodbye. Before disappearing, she asks Mario to think of her whenever he sees daisies blooming in a field, her body turning into spores. The spores spread across the world, purifying it and healing everyone who had fallen sick. Mario mourns her sacrifice and is later shown placing flowers at her grave. However, after purifying the world, Daisy's spores touch down on the ground, sprouting into flowers which bloom and grow into a horde of small versions of Daisy, reviving her. The group of Daisies excitedly runs towards Mario, much to everyone's surprise.
Daisy's final appearance in the manga is in a four-cell gag strip at the end of the second volume of the Yoshi's Story adaptation. Luigi tells the revived Daisy that she is just a copy, and that he loved the original Daisy, sadly placing a ring of flowers on her tombstone. However, the ground beneath the grave begins to rise, causing Luigi to scream in terror and urinate himself. Given the gag nature of this strip, the authenticity of this event is unclear.

Daisy appears in a four-cell strip of Super Mario-kun with Mario and Peach. Peach yells at Mario and throws a mushroom at him, jealous of the relationship between him and Daisy. In the third volume, Daisy is the sender who delivers Mario a Marine Pop. In volume 26, she appears in Luigi's imagination.

Daisy also appears in the Game Boy comic books. Just as in Super Mario Land, she is Tatanga's captive and is waiting for Mario to save her. In these comics, Daisy, Mario, and Tatanga are released from the world of video games to go on adventures in the "Real World."

Daisy is a supporting character in NES Open Tournament Golf. She is Luigi's caddy, commenting on his golfing during play, similarly to Peach's relation to Mario.

Daisy is first seen in the opening cinematic of Mario Golf: Toadstool Tour, participating with Mario, Luigi, and Peach in a freestyle golfing exhibition. Daisy makes her shot after Peach and Mario, and they rally in impression after Luigi's recent shot hits the flagpole of the hole. The four characters later stroll around in the wilderness with Bowser's Castle in the distance. Daisy covers her eyes after she sees an explosion from a distance, a result of one of Mario's shots causing Bowser to fumble a Bob-omb.
Daisy is a playable character. She is available from the start, though Daisy's Star persona can be unlocked defeating her in a Character Match VS Challenge. Daisy is partnered with Peach in Doubles Mode automatically. Daisy is one of the more powerful characters, having a greater shot Distance than most other characters; this is also the first time where Daisy is physically stronger than Peach. Her shot height is also high, giving her an advantage to recover from traps and shoot over obstacles. Daisy has a good Spin, an above-average Impact, and below-average Control, causing her to slice the ball without proper adjustments. If the player gets a Nice Shot, Daisy's ball soars in the air in a burst of flower petals. If Daisy gets a par, she questionably gazes towards the camera. If she gets a Birdie, Daisy jumps for joy multiple times. If Daisy gets an Eagle or better, she jumps in excitement twice before waving in both directions and showing a peace sign. If Daisy gets a Bogey, she yawns, feeling tired and exhausted. If she gets a Double Bogey or worse, Daisy stomps low in frustration before raising her arms and sighing.

Daisy is mentioned in Mario Golf: Advance Tour. Her name appears on the scoreboard amongst several other names. Her crown also appears in the Locker Room at Marion Clubhouse, though is mistakenly referred to as Diddy's crown in international releases. Daisy can be seen herself in her icon from Mario Golf: Toadstool Tour, which appears when a Nintendo GameCube Game Boy Advance cable is connected.

Daisy is a playable character in Mario Golf: World Tour. She is available by default. Daisy is one of the stronger characters, with a drive distance of 213 yards by default. Daisy has a greater shot height than the other character, gaining an advantage when avoiding obstacles and completing certain challenge objectives. However, she needs extra adjustments for inclement weather. Daisy's trajectory is a draw, also having that in the way of tricky shots. Daisy has average sweet spot and control. Daisy retains the same outfit from Mario Tennis Open. Daisy appears with other golfers in the Royal Room in Castle Club mode, where Daisy readily offers to play a round of golf with the player and comments on their achievements during tournaments. Daisy has a Star persona, who can be unlocked by defeating her in the Forest Course character challenge, and her drive distance is at a default of 270 yards. A Daisy costume can be unlocked by collecting all the Star Coins in the Forest Course challenges, and the clothing set, golf clubs, and a ball themed after Daisy can be unlocked from purchasing them at the Clubhouse.
For her post-hole animations, if Daisy gets a par, she strolls around before greeting the front of the camera. If she gets a Birdie, Daisy spins around, where her outfit transforms into her default dress before giving the peace sign. If she gets a Bogey, Daisy slowly feels tired and stomps the ground in frustration before looking away. If Daisy gets a Double Bogey, she feels tired; the background darkens as the bright spotlight shines on Daisy sulking. While Daisy sulks, orange petals fall to the ground.

Daisy is a playable character in Mario Golf: Super Rush. She is the only non-Power character with 12 stamina, the highest amount in the game. Her Special Shot is the Blossom Strike and her Special Dash is the Pinwheel Dash. In this game, she wears a new golf outfit replacing the previous outfit used in both Mario Golf: World Tour and Mario Sports Superstars.

Daisy is first shown in the opening scene of the Nintendo 64 version of Mario Tennis. She walks in line with the other characters, giving greeting signs. Daisy loses to Yoshi as the competition unfolds. Daisy is later caught off guard when Wario and Waluigi appear, feeling doubtful. When Bowser appears, the turmoil cools down, and Daisy and Peach laugh before jumping for joy. Daisy is also seen during Nina's ending, awarding her the trophy with Peach.
Daisy is a playable character. She is billed a Technique player. Daisy is partnered with Birdo in doubles, or Luigi if he is being played. Daisy rarely misses when playing close to the net.
Daisy is a supporting character in the handheld version. In Exhibition Mode, the mode featuring Daisy, she compliments the player upon their arrival to "Mario World." The close friendship between is Daisy and Peach is shown with Daisy standing at her side in the throne room of her castle and at the Castle Court.

Daisy is first shown in the opening cinematic of Mario Power Tennis. She returns the ball during a doubles match against Yoshi and Donkey Kong, though Daisy and her partner, Peach, lose to the princess duo. After completing a singles tournament, the trophy ceremony shows Luigi holding the trophy, while Daisy arrives on roller skates, ramming into Luigi, who spins. After ramming into Luigi a second time, Luigi fumbles the trophy, allowing Daisy to make a leap and snag the trophy. Luigi looks on, and Daisy poses for the camera with the trophy in her possession.
Daisy is a playable character. She is a Technique type and retains Peach as her partner in doubles matches. Daisy's Offensive Power Shot (named the Wonder Flower) disorients opponents and knocks them back if the shot is returned. The color of the petals also determines the type of shot used on the ball. Her Defensive Power Shot (named the Flowerbed Return) allows her to fly over a growing flower-bed to return any reachable shots. Like all Technique types, she has great control on the ball. She also has the best serve of a Technique character, as well as good power, speed, and lunge stats. Her reach is average, resulting in limited net-play.

Daisy is a playable character in Mario Tennis Open. She generally retains her characteristics from her appearance in Mario Power Tennis, being more powerful than Peach at the expense of her movement speed and ball control. Daisy's racket, uniform, wristbands, and shoes are available for purchase in the shop. There is also a Daisy costume that's unlocked when the player collects 700+ points in Ring Shot with another player. Daisy wears an athletic mini-dress for her tennis outfit in this installment.

Daisy is playable character in Mario Tennis: Ultra Smash. For the first time, Daisy is classified as an All-Around player. She has above average ball control, powerful flat shots, and below average move speed. Unlike in Mario Tennis Open, Daisy reverts back to her primary, two-piece, athletic uniform in this game.

Daisy is a playable character in Mario Tennis Aces. She is still classified as an All-Around character and wears the same two-piece athletic uniform from Mario Tennis: Ultra Smash.
In Adventure Mode, Daisy firstly appears in the opening cinematic where Luigi, Wario and Waluigi get possessed by an ancient racket. Daisy, upon witnessing what happened, noted that Wario and Waluigi were even more suspicious than usual, and also suspected Toad of knowing something before enticing him to reveal this information. Successively, Daisy wants to help Mario to find Luigi, but Toad refuses to let her leave because according to him, the mission is too dangerous for a "diplomat" and convinces her to stay in the stadium for the rest of their mission (and also citing that Luigi, Wario, and Waluigi would have used their absence to attack the stadium again). When Mario and Toad come back to the stadium and Lucien forces Mario to compete into the "Lucien Cup", Daisy and Peach face the corrupted Wario and Waluigi, who are empowered with portions of Bask's power by Aster earlier. Although Daisy and Peach defeat the pair, their victory proves short-lived when Bowser steals Lucien. After Bowser takes his leave with Lucien and challenges Mario, Daisy makes it clear that this was the main reason that she disliked Bowser all along. After Mario defeated the resulting fusion between the two, Bowcien, Wario and Waluigi expressed disappointment that they would not be able to become the best tennis players with Lucien, prompting Daisy to scold them both for not learning anything.

Daisy is a recurring playable character in the Mario Party series. Her first appearance in the series is Mario Party 3, where Daisy is a playable character in Party Mode and Minigame Mode only. Daisy has returned as a fully playable character in all subsequent installments, barring Mario Party Advance. She is the only character in the Nintendo 64 games to not have her own board.
Daisy made her first Mario Party appearance is in Mario Party 3. This game also marks the debut of Jen Taylor as the voice of Princess Daisy. After the player is prompted to earn the Beauty Star Stamp, Daisy intervenes and claims to be worthy of it. She coaxes the Millennium Star into agreeing to hand her the Star Stamp by making him swoon over her, but is stopped by the outraged player. The Millennium Star then decides to settle the issue on the Backtrack Duel Board. Bowser interrupts their departure to this duel board, but is smacked by Daisy and sent flying into the distance. Daisy attempts to justify this by saying he was in her way. The group heads off to the duel board afterward. When the player defeats Daisy, she bursts into tears and flees. In the game, Daisy's default duel board partner is a Snifit.
In Mario Party 4, Daisy is one of the participants exploring the Party Cube which like previous installments included boards and corresponding minigames. Daisy receives her own constellation in her ending cutscene of story mode. The game also marks the first appearance of her current design.
Daisy is a playable character in Mario Party-e. She also appears in the minigame Daisy's Rodeo!, riding and attmepting to stay on a mechanical bull in the likeness of Bowser. Daisy's card uses her design from Mario Party 4, though the minigame designs Daisy similar to her appearances in the Nintendo 64 games.
Mario Party 5 marks the last game where Daisy was voiced by Jen Taylor, before she was replaced by Deanna Mustard for all subsequent titles until Super Mario Bros. Wonder.
In Mario Party 6, Daisy appears in five of the Miracle Book pages: "Blooper, Ahoy", "Card Crazy", "Amp Attack", "Yoshi's Revenge", and "It Came From the Deep". This is also the first game in the Mario Party series where Deanna Mustard voices Daisy.
In Mario Party 7, Daisy's special Orb is the Flower Orb, which allows her to gain 3 coins for each space she passes with her next Dice Block roll. Daisy shares this orb with Peach.
In Mario Party DS, Daisy has a Character Figurine and Badge that can both be unlocked by completing Story Mode with her. In the minigame Mario's Puzzle Party returning from Mario Party 3, Daisy maintains the mugshot she had in that game, marking the last time her Nintendo 64 design is used in a Mario game.
In Mario Party 9, Daisy joins her friends to retrieve the Mini Stars stolen from Bowser. She has a constellation called "Princess Minor", which is purchasable at the Museum for 50 Party Points.
In Mario Party 10, Daisy is playable in every mode aside from amiibo Party due to the lack of her own amiibo when the game was released.
In Mario Party: Star Rush, Daisy has the ability to cause flower buds to bloom, an ability she shares with Peach and Toadette. Additionally, Daisy has a special Dice Block named Friendly Dice Block. In Toad Scramble, when players have Daisy in the party, she can roll a 3, a 4, a 5, or a number corresponding to the current number of allies the player has to add to the player's total roll.
In Super Mario Party, Daisy's Dice Block has four 3's and two 4's.
In Mario Party Superstars, alongside Mario and the rest of the crew, Daisy is invited by Koopa Troopa to adventure beyond the Warp Pipe to determine a new Super Star.
Daisy is a playable character in Super Mario Party Jamboree. Her Jamboree Buddy ability is being able to purchase items from a shop at half their prices. It is also the first Mario Party title, and the second Mario game overall after Super Mario Bros. Wonder, where Giselle Fernandez voices Princess Daisy.

Daisy is a playable character in Mario Kart: Double Dash!!. She and Peach are partnered by default, and both characters are billed in the middle-weight category. The two characters share the Heart as their special item. Daisy's personal kart is the Bloom Coach, and her personal course is Daisy Cruiser, taking place on her own themed cruiser.

Daisy makes a cameo appearance in the bottom-left corner of the results screen of a finished Cup in both Mario Kart Arcade GP and Mario Kart Arcade GP 2.

Daisy is an unlockable playable character in Mario Kart DS. She is billed in the middle-weight category again. Her three personal karts are the Standard DS, the Power Flower, and the Light Dancer. Daisy is unlocked by getting a Gold Trophy on every cup of the Retro Grand Prix on 50cc. Daisy is the staff ghost character used in the Sky Garden and Tick-Tock Clock courses.

Daisy is an unlockable character in Mario Kart Wii. She is in the Medium weight class. Daisy can be unlocked by placing first in the 150cc Special Cup or by playing 2,850 races. Daisy's stat bonuses are Speed +4, Handling +2, and Mini-Turbo +3, making her the fastest Medium-weight character in the game. Like Peach and Rosalina, Daisy wears a special biker suit outfit whenever she drives a bike. Her infant counterpart, Baby Daisy, makes her first ever appearance in this game. The Star Cup features Daisy Circuit, a Daisy-themed seaside resort. Daisy is the staff ghost character for both this course and Coconut Mall.
The Prima Games guide states that Mario and Luigi saved Daisy from Tatanga in Super Mario Land, which is erroneous because Luigi does not appear in the game.

Daisy is an unlockable playable character in Mario Kart 7. She is billed a Lightweight character. Daisy's personal kart is the Birthday Girl, featuring her flower symbol on the front. Daisy can be unlocked by winning the Mushroom Cup on 150cc. The Peach Parasol becomes orange when used by Daisy, matching her color scheme. Daisy's personal course is Daisy Hills, as well as the returning Daisy Cruiser. Daisy's bonus stats are high in "Acceleration" and "Off-Road", but lower in "Speed" and "Weight". 

Daisy is a playable character in Mario Kart 8. Daisy is one of the lighter middleweights, and her stats are tied with Peach's and Yoshi's. Daisy is also the Staff Ghost for Moo Moo Meadows. When selecting her as a player on the Grand Prix mode, Waluigi and Peach will compete with her as main rivals. She retains her biker suit from Mario Kart Wii for when she uses bikes and ATVs, and her standard dress when using karts. Like the previous game, the Peach Parasol is orange when being used by Daisy. The game does not introduce another personal course for Daisy, although Sweet Sweet Canyon, Royal Raceway and Baby Park make clear references to her persona.
Daisy is also one of the major influences for one of the sponsors, Princess Orange, which not only has a name suggestive of Daisy but features her flower emblem as part of the logo. Aside from this, Daisy appears on two of the Women of Racing Organization posters, appearing both times alongside Peach, and with Birdo on one of these. She is also referenced in the Peach and Daisy Royal Patisserie, with the logo being a combination of the princesses' crowns.
The Sweet Sweet Kingdom of Mario Kart 8 Deluxe shows a portrait of Daisy inside the castle, and her emblem is engraved on the track. Daisy Cruiser and Daisy Circuit both return in the Booster Course Pass as part of wave 5 and 6, respectively. Additionally, Daisy amiibo figures can be used to unlock a Daisy Mii Racing Suit, which returns from Mario Kart Tour.

Daisy is a playable character in Mario Kart Arcade GP DX. She was added on June 6, 2017, but not in international releases. Daisy is a cruiser type character, with average stats, tying with Mario, Luigi and Pac-Man. This is the only instance of Daisy being part of a weight class above medium.

 
Daisy is a playable character in Mario Kart Tour, where she is available as a Super character. The Heart returns as Daisy's special item, as it does for Peach. A Mii suit based off her debuts in this game, although it has the Triple Bananas as a special item instead of the Heart making Daisy the only playable character to get a Mii whose special item is different. Daisy Cruiser, Daisy Circuit and Daisy Hills all return as retro tracks in this game. In addition Daisy received a vast selection of karts and gliders themed after her such as the Birthday Girl Daisy, the Festival Girl, the Sunny Surf Sailer and the Red and Gold Umbrella.
Her first alternate form titled Daisy (Holiday Cheer) was added on December 4, 2019 as part of the London Tour. She wears a red coat in the form of a mini-dress with white trim linings, as well as black leggings and red short boots with a white tube ring at the top of each, and her crown is replaced with a red beret with holly leaves (resembling Mrs. Claus). Her special item is the Lucky Seven.
Her second variant called Daisy (Fairy) was added on May 6, 2020 as part of the Flower Tour. She wears a yellow top with green straps, a skirt shaped after a daisy with leaves and flowers on it, and a daisy crown. Additionally, she is barefoot and has a set of yellow wings shaped after a butterfly attached to the rear of the build. She maintains the Heart as her special item.
Her third variant called Daisy (Yukata) was added on August 26, 2020 as part of the Summer Festival Tour. She wears an orange yukata with various ornaments such as white flowers and a cyan cloth, a Cheep Cheep mask, and a set of orange wedged flip-flops. Her special item is the Fire Flower.
Her fourth variant called Daisy (Swimwear) was added on June 30, 2021 as part of the 2021 Summer Tour, and became a regular starting in the Ocean Tour. She wears a minidress with multiple orange and yellow frills shaped after flowers, orange shorts, a headband, and a set of orange flip-flops with a daisy matching her broach and earrings. Her special item is the Triple Bananas.
Her fifth variant called Daisy (Farmer) was added on April 20, 2022 as part of the Amsterdam Tour. Her design is based on Peach's variant from Odyssey but it features an orange shirt, orange boots and a yellow bandana instead of a straw hat. Her special item is the Hammer.
Her sixth variant called Daisy (Thai Dress) was added on June 29, 2022 as part of the Bangkok Tour. She wears a Sbai which features a green and white top, a long skirt with flower patterns, a set of silver heels, various gold ornaments all over the outfit and a new crown with a big red gem in the center. Her special item is the Coin Box.
Her seventh and final variant called Daisy (Sailor) was added on July 27, 2022 as part of the Ocean Tour. Her sailor uniform features a white and orange sailor shirt and hat with orange shorts with golden buttons. Her orange shoes with white mid-height socks are taken from her athletic uniform, which first debuted since Mario Golf: Toadstool Tour. Her special item is the Double Bob-ombs.

Daisy makes a cameo appearance in Super Smash Bros. Melee. She appears in the form of a trophy, which can be unlocked in both the Lottery and a match in any of the three modes. The trophy depicts Daisy with her appearance from Mario Party 3. The description states that Daisy appeared in Mario Open Golf, though international releases mistakenly state her to be part of both the Nintendo 64 and Game Boy Color versions of Mario Golf. In earlier releases only, the trophy has a third eye on the back of her head, visible only by zooming in. One of Peach's alternate costume is one based on Daisy's outfit, returning in all later installments prior to Super Smash Bros. Ultimate, and it includes Daisy's floral motif on the costume as well as her tanned skin and wrist length gloves. Peach's trophy from All-Star Mode depicts her with Daisy's color scheme. Peach's blue costume is partly based on Daisy's appearance in NES Open Tournament Golf.

Daisy appears in Super Smash Bros. Brawl in the form of a trophy and two stickers. Daisy's trophy, which is modeled after her Mario Strikers Charged, states that her iconic look is a yellow and white dress, even though it had been retired since the Nintendo GameCube era. Daisy's stickers use artworks from Mario Party 7 and Super Mario Strikers. The first sticker is large, gives +27 attack to leg attacks, and is usable by Peach and Zelda only. Meanwhile, the Super Mario Strikers sticker is at medium size, gives +5 attack to leg attacks, and can be equipped by any fighter.

Daisy appears as separate trophies in Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS and Super Smash Bros. for Wii U. In the former version, Daisy's trophy depicts her in her tennis outfit from Mario Tennis Open. She is also mentioned in Wendy O. Koopa's trophy information, where it is stated that Wendy sees her as a rival. In the latter version, Daisy has three different trophies. One is based on her standard appearance in her yellow and orange dress, dedicated to her debut in Super Mario Land and her first playable appearance in Mario Tennis. Another trophy is based on her appearance in the Mario Baseball series in her sports outfit. The third depicts her appearance as Baby Daisy. It should also be noted that Daisy has the largest amount of trophies (four) than any other non-playable character featured in this iteration of the Super Smash Bros. series. Additionally, a Daisy wig can be unlocked as an accessory for Mii Fighters.

Daisy is a playable character in Super Smash Bros. Ultimate. She was first announced during the E3 2018 Nintendo Direct alongside fellow newcomers Inkling and Ridley. Daisy is a clone of Peach, meaning that her attacks and abilities are very similar, but with some differences. Daisy still has different animations for standing and dashing, along with some aesthetic differences such as the use of a Blue Toad instead of Toad himself or orange/yellow flower petal effects replacing Peach's pink heart effects on various attacks. Daisy uses a Blue Toad for all of her grabs as well as her neutral special move, Toad. Like Peach, she plucks Vegetables from the ground for her down special move, which have varying damage outputs depending on their faces; there is a small chance of Daisy plucking a Bob-omb or Mr. Saturn instead. Daisy's up special move is Daisy Parasol, and this is her first time using one. Daisy is lighter than Marth, Diddy Kong, and Lucina but heavier than Young Link, Greninja, and Isabelle, while having the same weight as Peach. Daisy's voice clips are reused from Mario Kart Wii, Mario Kart 8, Super Mario Run, Mario Super Sluggers, and Mario Party 10. Daisy's Mii wig from the previous game returns, and is now available from the start.
In Adventure Mode: World of Light, she is recruited at Dracula's Castle after her puppet fighter is defeated.
Daisy is one of the two newcomers without an introduction tagline, similarly to Dark Pit in Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS / Wii U), with the other being Inkling. She is also the only newcomer in this game without a dedicated reveal video, as she was simply shown coinciding with the introduction of the term "Echo Fighter", and the explanation that both Dark Pit and Lucina would be classified as such in the E3 2018 Nintendo Direct.
The first six battles of Daisy's Classic Mode route involves her battling princesses or any other form of female nobility. Daisy's route, Sarasaland Represent!, involves Daisy engaging in these battles in the following order:

Zelda on Temple
Lucina on Castle Siege
Rosalina on Mario Galaxy
Corrin (female) on Coliseum
A horde battle against two Mii Brawlers, two Mii Gunners, and two Mii Swordfighters on Peach's Castle
Peach on Princess Peach's Castle
Final boss against Master Hand, as well as Crazy Hand in intensity 7.0 or higher, on Final Destination

Daisy is an unlockable character in Yakuman DS. Statistically, Daisy has high luck, low defense and moderate attack, speed, and skill. Daisy never melds her tiles unless it is a "closed kan". She is the Rank 10 opponent faced in Ranking Mode.

Daisy is first seen in the opening cinematic of Mario Superstar Baseball. In one part, Daisy blacks out, along with Peach and Red Toad, believing that Mario is going to be tagged out as Donkey Kong tries to receive the ball, but Mario evades and scores nevertheless. Daisy is then seen fielding a ball, passes it over to Peach, and then to Yoshi to get Waluigi out at home plate. After Mario hits a walk-off home run, Daisy and others storm the field to celebrate.
Daisy is a playable character. She is billed a Balanced player. Daisy wears her two-piece athletic uniform. She is the vice captain of Peach's team in Challenge Mode. Daisy shares good chemistry with both Peach and Luigi whilst having bad chemistry with Waluigi and Petey Piranha. Daisy's Star Skill is Flower Ball, which involves her throwing a gust of flower petals that hide the ball from the batter, or from the fielders if used while batting. Daisy's special talents are the Quick Throw and Sliding Catch. Daisy has good pitching, decent batting and average fielding, and low speed overall.

Daisy is first shown in the opening cinematic of Mario Super Sluggers. Daisy is riding a yacht to the Baseball Kingdom with other characters, gazing upon it from the summit of a lighthouse. At Mario Stadium, Daisy brandishes a Wii Remote, which transforms into a baseball bat before hitting a ball thrown from Mario. Daisy and Red Toad later panic after Luigi gets body checked by Donkey Kong, though Daisy and the others celebrate when Luigi makes the final out. In the cinematic shown after defeating Bowser, Daisy celebrates with the crew before marching toward the entrance of the Baseball Kingdom, looking towards the sunset, and the lights come on at night. In the last cinematic, Daisy unknowingly escorts Bowser and his son to the Daisy Cruiser. As the characters have some desserts and beverages, Daisy stands at one table between Yoshi and Red Toad before a display of fireworks storm the night sky, surprising the witnesses. Daisy and the other characters retreat to Mario Stadium to witness a show of Bob-omb Derby.
Daisy is both a playable character and a team captain. Her baby counterpart, Baby Daisy, is also playable. Daisy wears her two-piece sports uniform. Daisy shares chemistry with Birdo, in addition to retaining hers with Peach and Luigi. Daisy's batting and pitching stats remain unchanged, while her fielding was greatly improved and her running was slightly improved. Daisy's stamina is average and not as great as Birdo or Peach's. In Challenge Mode, Daisy is a member of Peach Monarchs, like in the previous game's Challenge mode. Daisy can be recruited in Challenge Mode by repairing the fountain in Peach Ice Garden and replace Daisy statue, which Daisy transformed into, with a normal Toad statue. After being restored, Daisy reveals her last memory of Bowser Jr. casting a spell on Daisy while she was strolling in the garden's outskirts.
In Exhibition Mode, Daisy is the Team Captain for the Daisy Flowers. The icon for this team includes Daisy's crown, along with a floral wreath used as the border around it. Finally, her Mario Super Sluggers baseball card lists her Rookie Year as 1990, but her debut appearance, Super Mario Land, was released in 1989; 1990 instead refers to its PAL releases. This set of cards does not refer to her as a princess, even if she actually is one.

Daisy is a playable character in Super Mario Strikers. She is billed an Offensive type and wears a specialized soccer uniform that is orange with emerald green trim linings around. Daisy's jersey number is "9". Her Super Strike is Torpedo Strike.

Daisy is a playable character in Mario Strikers Charged. Daisy is a defensive-type captain with high Movement (which affects her movement speed) and Defense (which determines her defensive capabilities on the field) but low Shooting and Passing ability. Like the other captains, Daisy has a personal Super Ability and Mega Strike. Her Super Ability is Crystal Smash!, which covers the surrounding ground with sharp orange crystals, blasting away anyone in the range, while her Mega Strike involves her shooting into the air and generating a crystal gauntlet on one of her arms, which she uses to punch the ball towards the goal. In the game's Striker Challenge Mode, Daisy faces against both Peach and Waluigi. She battles Peach to take the Star Cup championship, and she takes on Waluigi to see if she can get the Brick Wall award for an unprecedented fifth straight year. Daisy has an alternative uniform colored emerald green that she uses if the opposition wears a similarly colored uniform to her primary orange uniform, both of which retain the number 9 she had on her original uniform in the first installment. In addition, her uniform is overlapped with pieces of armor

Daisy is a playable character in Mario Strikers: Battle League, as of version 1.1.0. She is billed a Technique player and has the highest technique statistic of the playable characters, though Daisy's speed is among the lowest. Her Hyper Strike is Flower Spiral.

Daisy is a playable character in Mario Hoops 3-on-3. She is billed a Technical player. Daisy's Special Shot is the Flower Shot, which lets Daisy hover in mid-air to kick the ball in the hoop. Daisy has her own personal court, Daisy Garden. Daisy retains her two-piece uniform, though her alternate outfit can be unlocked; this is the first time where Daisy wears her newer sports dress.

Daisy is a playable character in Itadaki Street DS and Fortune Street. She is a C-rank difficulty-level character in both games. Additionally, in the Tour Mode of Fortune Street, Daisy is faced only on Mario Circuit, along with Mario and Diddy Kong.

Daisy is a playable character in both the Wii version and Nintendo DS version of Mario & Sonic at the Olympic Games. She is billed a Speed player in both versions. In the Wii version, Daisy only makes a small appearance with the other characters at the start of the opening.

Daisy is a playable character in both the Wii version and the Nintendo DS version of Mario & Sonic at the Olympic Winter Games. She is billed a Speed player again, and Daisy and the other female athletes each received a new winter outfit, which is a Mii outfit in the Wii version only. Furthermore, Daisy appears in the opening of the home console release, competing in Giant Slalom and Short Track 1,000m, as well as with the other athletes at the start and female characters at the end. In the handheld release's Adventure Tours mode, Daisy is unlocked in Blizland after losing to Blaze in Ultimate Figure Skating. In the mode, Daisy is the only playable character of the Chase off Kiki! minigame, and she is used to complete the Short Track 500m and Intense Short Track missions run by Lakitu and unlock the Meteor Curling Stone. Daisy and the other characters are seen in the ending of the mode, celebrating the victory of both Mario and Sonic.

Daisy is a playable character in the Wii version of Mario & Sonic at the London 2012 Olympic Games. Daisy wears her usual athletic uniform for most events as well as her winter outfit for Equestrian Events and a new leotard for Gymnastics events that doubles as a swimming costume for Aquatics events. Daisy appears in the opening with all of the other athletes as well as competing in Beach Volleyball and Synchronized Swimming. An updated version of the Mii outfit with the summer design returns, and Daisy also appears as on of the characters that can be spoken to in London Party to earn stickers.

Daisy is a playable character in the Nintendo 3DS version of Mario & Sonic at the London 2012 Olympic Games. She is included in the Girls group, alongside Peach, Amy, and Blaze, allowing her to only be played as in certain events. In the Story Mode, Daisy first appears investigating the Phantasmal Fog in Hyde Park with Amy, where they are attacked by imposters that eventually cause them to collapse. They are later found by Peach, Blaze, and several Toads, and the group find Rouge, who thy help recover from being brainwashed. Rouge then leads them to the fog machine and they clear the fog from the park, and decide to stay there to keep an eye on things. Daisy also calls Mario, Luigi, Sonic, and Tails to support them when they face Bowser and Dr. Eggman, as well as appearing at the opening ceremony. In the Girls bonus episodes, Daisy checks in on her way to go shopping and invites Amy to come with her, but after being defeated by Peach, she stays behind to help the group finish the invitations. Daisy helps to mail the invitations out, and suggests that the group go shopping to celebrate. A badge of Daisy can also be obtained from the badge machine.

Daisy is a playable character in Mario & Sonic at the Sochi 2014 Olympic Winter Games. She is billed a Speed player. Daisy wears her winter outfit again because of the winter setting, and the Mii costume based on her in the outfit also reappears.

Daisy is a playable character in both the Wii U version and the Nintendo 3DS version of Mario & Sonic at the Rio 2016 Olympic Games. She is billed a Speed player in both versions. In the Wii U version only, Mii costumes based on both of Daisy's main outfits appear, though the head and body parts have to be obtained separately. In the handheld version, Daisy is playable only in Football and Rhythmic Gymnastics as well as being a supporting character in the Mario Story of the Road to Rio mode.
Daisy is an unlockable playable character in Mario & Sonic at the Rio 2016 Olympic Games Arcade Edition. Her recommended events are Rhythmic Gymnastics and 100m Freestyle Swimming. Daisy has great speed and above average technique, but below average power.

Daisy is a playable character in Mario & Sonic at the Olympic Games Tokyo 2020 and Mario & Sonic at the Olympic Games Tokyo 2020 - Arcade Edition. She is billed a Speed player in both versions. Daisy is one of the athletes whose outfit differs depending on the event. In the Story Mode, Daisy is one of the first characters to join Luigi and Tails in helping to rescue Mario and Sonic.

Daisy is a playable character in Mario Sports Mix. She is billed a Technical player. Daisy's technique is maxed out, while her speed and power are below average. Daisy's central abilities are her flower-oriented abilities, through which she can make gardens complete with fences and cover her hands in flowers in a similar manner to pompoms to block and attack projectiles. Daisy also shows off incredible flexibility in her spin attack and is given an alternate outfit called Tennis-wear. It is unlocked by clearing the proper Flower Cup mission, or by using Daisy 40 times in matches. Daisy's personal court, Daisy Garden, is retained from Mario Hoops 3-on-3.

While Daisy does not appear physically in Mario & Luigi: Paper Jam, she makes a cameo in an extra Battle Card obtained from the Peach amiibo, alongside Peach and Rosalina. Although just a cameo appearance, this is Daisy's first appearance in a game other than a Mario sports or Mario Party title since Super Mario Land.

A Daisy-themed Yoshi is one of the costumes appearing only in Poochy & Yoshi's Woolly World and not in the original. The costume can be unlocked by scanning the Daisy amiibo.

Daisy is a playable character in Mario Sports Superstars. She is billed a Technique player in most sports, giving her an edge in aspects such as shot accuracy and horse control. However, in tennis, she is an All-Around type player as in Mario Tennis: Ultra Smash. In golf, Daisy has a default drive of 218 yards, and her shots travel very high in a draw trajectory. Aside from in tennis and golf, Daisy wears her usual two-piece athletic uniform. In those sports, Daisy instead wears her sports minidress from Mario Tennis Open and Mario Golf: World Tour.

Daisy was added to the roster of playable characters of Dr. Mario World along with Wario and Waluigi on August 7, 2019, just like every other playable doctor she can be obtained randomly in the Staffing menu of the game. For this game, Daisy has received a new outfit which features a yellow lab coat with short sleeves, a white shirt, an orange skirt and a set of silver heels. 
Her skill allows her to eliminate a specific object chosen by the player by tapping the object in question. Since version 2.3.0, the object(s) that is tapped will be cleared even if it requires multiple matches, such as any crate or objects in barrels. In stage mode, it is one object and an object must be tapped (empty spaces cannot be tapped). In versus mode, the area in which the skill clears differs in that it is increased based on level, where it targets a 1x1 area at level 1 and a 5x5 area at level 5. Prior to version 2.3.0, the skill's target is based on the top-left corner of the area but since then, it is based on the middle of the targeted area. Also in versus mode, when this skill is activated, the player can still move capsules around and tap the targeted area at a later time, potentially allowing for a consecutive use of this skill as only activating it will empty the skill meter.

Daisy makes a cameo appearance on a poster referencing Mario Strikers Charged in Luigi's Mansion 3.

While Daisy does not appear in The Super Mario Bros. Movie, her emblem can be seen in the teaser posterMedia:The Super Mario Bros Movie teaser poster.jpg on a sign for a stall in front of a store that resembles an aquarium. Additionally, she appears in two pieces of concept art for the film, suggesting she was originally planned to make an appearance.

Daisy's crown appears as a collectible in StreetPass Mii Plaza and as one of the characters in the Mario Tennis Open Puzzle Swap picture.
A Daisy-themed costume is featured in the Wii U port of Bayonetta. It is similar to the Peach costume, but it features a mini Luigi plush decoration instead of a Mario one. This costume can also be unlocked in Bayonetta 2.
Daisy is featured as one of the Mario-themed character skins in the Super Mario Mash-up included with Minecraft.
A Daisy costume appears in Miitopia, which can be unlocked scanning her amiibo.

While Daisy does not appear at all in Mario + Rabbids: Sparks of Hope, creative director Davide Soliani revealed that he would have liked to include her and Wario in the game.

Daisy has been featured in many sets of collectibles for the Mario Series. Many mini-figures have been released as well as a small amount of larger figurines. 

In her initial release for Super Mario Land, a set of mini figures were released for the game, and Daisy got one of herself depicting her original design. A Mario Party 7 set of 4cm vinyl figures were released in 2005; each of the playable characters in the games were featured. Released in 2008, Daisy was featured in a group of six characters for the release of the 4-inch, series 2, vinyl, Super Mario figures by PopCo Entertainment. For volume 2 of the Furuta Super Mario Bros candy toys, Daisy was featured with her own mini-figure. This series of figures were shipped inside chocolate covered eggs, which needed to be opened and eaten to receive the toy inside. Daisy was featured in the BanPresto Super Mario Volume 2 Set of 6 PVC Figure Keychains. Daisy has also had a number of figures for the Mario Kart series, including a figure for Mario Kart DS, and multiple figures for Mario Kart Wii,, including a pull-back bike figure. She was also featured in the Super Mario Chess set as the second bishop on Mario's team, alongside Princess Peach. She was featured in the second series of Super Mario K'Nex blind-bagged figures as the rare, being limited to two per case. She was featured in the Sanei Super Mario line of plush dolls in 2013 as well as the Super Mario All-Stars line in 2015. Daisy was depicted in one of the playing cards for the Mario Hanafuda cards released in 2015. In UNO Super Mario, Daisy is pictured on the 6 card. Daisy has two amiibo figurines; a Super Mario-series amiibo, that was revealed during E3 of 2016, and was released alongside Mario Party: Star Rush and a Super Smash Bros. series amiibo, that was initially revealed at the November 2018 Super Smash Bros. Direct and released in April of 2019.

Many of the songs from the Super Mario Compact Disco revolve around lyrics dealing with or relating to Daisy. The song Save Me (With Your Charm) actually states in the beginning that it is Daisy singing,

Yo, this is Princess Daisy
You're listening to Super Mario Compact Disco

Kick it
Daisy was also mentioned in the songs Super Mario Land, Radio Compact Disco 4, Super Mario USA, and Six Golden Coins. Most of these mentions related to a love interest between Mario and Daisy, Daisy being captive, or Daisy being rescued. The song lyrics make several errors in relation to the games, however.
Aside from the Super Mario Compact Disco, Daisy had her own song on the Super Mario Land [single]. On the Japanese release, the song was titled Daisy's Mix, but on the United Kingdom release it was titled Daisy's Breakdown. On the soundtrack for Super Mario Land released only in Japan, Daisy had her own song titled Oh! Daisy (Princess Daisy Theme).

Daisy is a young woman with vivid blue eyes and deep orange-brown hair. She has an average height compared to other Super Mario characters, being shorter than Peach but generally depicted as taller than Luigi except in Super Mario Bros. Wonder, and she is usually classified in the middle of weight classes in the Mario Kart series. Her hairstyle is flipped with parted bangs, and it reaches past her shoulders in length. Her facial features include distinctive, round cheeks, a button nose, soft and natural lips, and large eyes with two thick, black lashes and long, curved eyebrows. Her lips vary from light rose to orange in color or having orange lipstick.
Daisy usually wears a yellow, floor-length dress similar to Peach's, but with white and orange accents. It has puffy sleeves with white, petal-shaped openings, a matching collar, orange panniers at the waist, and two rows of orange frills at the base. In some games there is a white petticoat underneath the dress. She wears short, white gloves with petal-shaped openings and heeled pumps varying from orange to vermillion in color. She wears round, viridian earrings with white, petal-shaped encasings and a matching, oval brooch. She also wears a gold crown with round gems that match her other jewelry on the front and back and round, red gems on the sides.
Daisy's appearance has been varied and revised over time. Especially throughout her early appearances, details of her design differed and varied until being set to a more common standard as of a redesign introduced with the release of Mario Party 4 on the Nintendo GameCube in 2002. 
In Daisy's debut in Super Mario Land in 1989, her hair extends past her waist and covers her ears, and her crown is red with a single jewel on the front. The jewel of her crown has six petals and her earrings each have five. She has black eyes and jewels, and her floral collar is centered at the seam of the petals as opposed to the tip. Her dress has a white waistband and there is a white dollop pattern along the bottom of it. In-game, Daisy's sprite resembles a girl with long hair wearing a dress, using only two shades from the Game Boy's limited palette.
In NES Open Tournament Golf in 1991, she is shown with blue eyes and jewels, as well as yellow slippers. Daisy and Peach wear miniskirts as opposed to their previous floor-length dresses, and they lack their crowns. They are also shown to be the same height and appear to be body-doubles in size and stature. In-game, Daisy's sprite appearance highly differs from her look in artwork; her hair is blond, her dress is blue, and some other physical details are also off-model.
In Mario Tennis in 2000, Daisy was given a darker hair and skin color, being depicted with a notably deeper skin-tone than other characters in the game like Peach and Baby Mario, as seen in the game's promotional and title screen art. She and some other characters have pale skin in-game, however. She still sports a miniskirt, common with Peach's appearances in sport games, but she lacks a crown despite Peach now wearing her own again. Instead of the previous slippers, Daisy and Peach wear matching orange sneakers with a yellow strap and white tube socks.
In Mario Party 3, Daisy is depicted with a long dress and a crown again for the first time since her debut. Artwork shows her crown to be pink instead of the original red, with an oval, yellow jewel on the front, encrusted in six white, floral petals; additionally, on the sides of her crown are round, blue jewels. Renders also depict her wearing orange heels, and with her earrings having five, white petals around them with blue jewels in the center that match the blue of her brooch. Her in-game model depicts the crown as red again, her heels a matching red, and the jewels of her earrings and brooch are more greenish than blue. The jewel on the front of her crown lacks the floral details, and her earrings have six petals instead of the previously standard five. Unlike in Mario Tennis, her tan is retained in-game and on the promotional materials alike. This was also the first time Daisy was noticeably shorter than Peach, as they previously shared a body type, but now had completely unique models.
In Super Smash Bros. Melee on the Nintendo GameCube in 2001, most characters' appearances are derived from their looks on the Nintendo 64, and Daisy's is based on hers from Mario Party 3 in particular. The only notable difference in her trophy is her jewels using multi-colored tones encompassing both the blue colors typical of her art and the green tones found on her in-game model, as well as additional magenta hues, depicting an overall iridescent appearance unique to this game and in line with its more realistic style. Princess Peach's alternate costume in this game takes on not just Daisy's color palette at the time, but also unique details of her costume like the floral motif and the dress's pattern, and it included some unique details like shoes matching her jewels instead of the then red or orange heels.
With the graphical changes from the Nintendo 64 to the Nintendo GameCube, starting with Mario Party 4, Daisy's appearance changed further and established a more consistent design for her that has remained mostly unchanged compared to the shifting details from her initial appearances. These changes made some aspects of her appearance more similar to Peach's, like giving her a gold crown instead of a red or pink one, dress details like panniers and ruffles on the bottom that replaced the white waistband and dollop pattern, and reverting Daisy's skin to a lighter tone. Some more unique features were implemented, as well, like giving her shorter, more uniquely styled hair, making orange her primary color, establishing the unique body physique, as well as retaining the greener jewel color.
For the most part, Daisy's appearance has not changed throughout the years since her last major redesign. There are instances where her hair may be a brighter or darker shade of orange, and her skin-tone sometimes has varied between a pale white and a light tan, but as of Mario Golf: Super Rush in 2021, Daisy has consistently been depicted with a lightly tanned skin-tone, and Nintendo has been revising old renders to solidify this skin-tone as well as a more consistent, deeply hued and shaded color of orange hair.

In NES Open Tournament Golf, she wears a sundress that is similar overall to her usual dress, although shorter, yellow ballet flats, and she lacked a crown. In-game, however, she was depicted having blonde hair and wearing a blue dress, presumably due to graphic limitations.
For Daisy's official breakthrough into the Super Mario franchise overall in Mario Tennis for the Nintendo 64, Daisy wears a dress similar to the one she wore in NES Open Tournament Golf, where the primary colors are amber yellow and the polka dots and linings are white. In addition, she wore orange shoes with white high socks to suits the sports theme properly. She also had an alternative color palette in Short Game mode, where her dress was lavender and indigo, while the shoes were colored indigo as well.
When the GameCube Super Mario sports installments came around, her current sports attire started to make their debut appearance as well. Daisy's primary athletic wear is a two-piece uniform, which was first introduced in Mario Golf: Toadstool Tour. It includes a sleeveless yellow top with her flower brooch, orange shorts, and tennis shoes with mid-height white socks. Daisy appears in this outfit more often than any other outfit, including her usual gown. She also has an athletic minidress, which was first introduced in Mario Hoops 3-on-3. It is a short yellow dress with two orange frills at the bottom resembling the ruffles on her usual gown. This outfit was first an unlockable alternative to her two-piece athletic uniform and was later used as her primary athletic wear in Mario Tennis Open and Mario Golf: World Tour.
In Mario & Sonic at the Olympic Games Tokyo 2020, she wears a new outfit similar to her regular athletic outfit; the top now has white accents on the sides and slightly bares her midriff, while the shorts are a bit darker and longer and come with yellow linings on the sides. This outfit receives some minor additions depending on the sport, such as a brown harness belt in the Sport Climbing and Archery events, or burnt orange knee-high socks in Football and Rugby Sevens.
In Super Mario Strikers, Daisy wears a two-piece soccer uniform that bares her midriff. Both the jersey and shorts are orange with emerald green linings on the sides. Also included are emerald green high tops with orange high socks. In Mario Strikers Charged, she wears the same uniform, but with pieces of armor overlapping it due to the game's intensity. It is available in two colors: the first is orange while the alternate is emerald green. Daisy's soccer number can be found on the back of her chest-plate. Daisy appears in this outfit for her trophy in Super Smash Bros. Brawl. In Mario Strikers: Battle League, her soccer uniform no longer bares her midriff and now consists of a soccer jersey and shorts that can now be worn with or without armor.
In Mario Kart Wii and Mario Kart 8/Mario Kart 8 Deluxe, Daisy wears a special biker suit when riding motorbikes instead of karts, and also on ATVs in the latter two titles. Daisy's jumpsuit is white with yellow as a secondary color. It includes a yellow scarf and a yellow heart graphic on the back. It features yellow elbow-length gloves with white accents, similar to Princess Peach's regular gloves, matching knee-high yellow boots with white trims and soles, and a matching belt with a silver buckle. In Mario Kart 8, the white on her jumpsuit is now a yellowish-white color.
In Mario & Sonic at the Olympic Winter Games, Daisy wears an outfit more suited for cold weather, consisting of a yellow mini-dress with long orange sleeves and orange leggings with vertical white stripes on both sides. She also wears white gloves and boots with yellow laces.
In Mario & Sonic at the London 2012 Olympic Games and Mario & Sonic at the Rio 2016 Olympic Games, Daisy wears a yellow leotard with orange lining on either side that also functions as a swimsuit; she is seen wearing this for the Rhytmic Gymnastics and Aquatics events in these installments.
In Mario Golf: Super Rush, Daisy wears a new outfit that suits the golfing theme more. This outfit consists of a yellow polo shirt, a white skirt with an orange belt and two flower badges attached to the left center. The footwear is similar to what she wore in Mario Tennis Aces, although a set of spike cleats are attached to the soles, and she wears orange high socks with a yellow stripe at the near top.

In Super Smash Bros. Ultimate, Daisy's standard dress was modified to a greater level of detail. Her crown has embossed patterns added on its surface. Embroidered details have been added to her collar, sleeve openings, and gloves. Seams were added on her torso that segment it into sections. A detailed white centerpiece was added in her midsection. An additional skirt layer was added that is split down the center and tipped with a tatted, white frill. Detailed plant-like patterns were added to her gown in various locations, including some akin to her original dress pattern. The two ruffles on the bottom of her dress were raised to display a yellow opening. The orange ruffles themselves were also covered in greater levels of detail. Her heels were made a matching orange color to her dress accents, and the red crown jewels are much pinker. The petticoat sometimes seen beneath Daisy's gown is absent in place of a deeply shaded void. Her dress comes in eight different color palettes.
In Mario Kart Tour, Daisy is seen in alternative forms. In her Holiday Cheer form, Daisy wears a red coat with white trimmings and buttons. The build also features a red beret with holly leaves, and she has black leggings with white-and-red colored ankle boots, befitting the Christmas aspect of the London Tour. In her Fairy form, Daisy wears a yellow flower dress with green leaf straps, a belt of green leaves with pink and white flowers, a daisy wreath and yellow butterfly wings similar to common depictions of fairies. In her Yukata form, the yukata is colored orange with white streaks and scale designs, a blue sash, and a Cheep-Cheep mask. In her Swimwear form, Daisy wears a yellow and orange swimdress, with the frills resembling flower petals and orange shorts underneath, a yellow and orange striped thin hairbow and matching flip-flops, with buckles resembling her flower brooch. In her Farmer form, she wears an orange-yellow long-sleeve shirt with blue overalls, similar to Peach's in Super Mario Odyssey, but instead of wearing a straw hat, she wears a headband similar to the one she wears in her Swimwear variant but without the stripes. In Her Thai Dress form, she wears a green and orange sabai, a golden crown with a round red gem, and silver heels. In her Sailor form, she wears a white and orange sailor shirt and hat with orange shorts and golden buttons, as well as the same orange shoes that she usually wears with her athletic uniform in the Mario Sports games.
In Super Mario Bros Wonder, Daisy is seen with several power-up forms. With a Fire Flower, her dress turns white while the orange parts remain the same and her collar becomes orange. With a Drill Mushroom, Daisy wears a drill hat, while the dress is colored onyx black with light grey stripes forming a spiral around it, similar to Peach's version of the same power-up, while the orange parts and white openings remain the same. With the Elephant Fruit, Daisy turns into an orange elephant, her dress is largely the same as her regular dress except she has visible bloomers underneath. With a Bubble Flower, Daisy's dress turns purple with the orange accents becoming yellow.

Daisy is portrayed as a tomboy with an extroverted personality and a tough demeanor. She can be described as spunky, energetic, loud, cheerful, and confident. In the song Save Me With Your Charm, she was shown to speak with a British accent, although in later appearances, when speaking, she uses American slang and has a twang to her voice. She also has a sassy side, often regarded for her wittiness and attitude. Unlike Peach, Daisy is not as proper or poised as she would be based on her appearance and status as royalty; such as standing with her hands on her hips, exhibiting hotheadedness in defeat, and showing off in victory or to get her way. It has been suggested her choice of colors could reflect her personality, with orange being her favorite. She likes to go shopping and dine at fine restaurants, but gladly passes up such enjoyments to train instead.
Daisy is also portrayed as a champion. In Mario & Sonic at the Olympic Winter Games, she seems to be an expert on skating sports; at the point, she was the only one who managed to beat Lakitu's missions. In Mario Strikers Charged, she won the Brick Wall Award for four consecutive years, and five after beating her challenge. In Mario Party 3, she said that she had never lost before, not even to her father.
Daisy has claimed to be clumsy. She fell off stage while receiving her trophy in Mario Tennis, needs help after getting lost in the Remix 10 pipe in Super Mario Run, and admits to being absentminded while waiting for her turn in Fortune Street.
Daisy will use her charms and tough temper to get what she wants. In Mario Party 3, she flirts with the Millennium Star to get the Beauty Stamp, and she swats Bowser into the sky when he gets in her way.
In Super Mario Strikers and Mario Strikers Charged, her personality is heightened. She celebrates scoring by showboating; throwing herself on the ground as she pumps her arms, brushing her shoulders off, and making a sizzling sound as she presses a finger to her backside. She responds to opponents scoring by trying to conceal her injuries, and she crosses her arms and taps her foot disapprovingly at her teammates, who cower in response to her wrath. In Mario Tennis Aces, she largely has the same personality traits as before, although she does show some lack of confidence after witnessing Lucien's possessing Wario, Waluigi, and Luigi, even believing they may not even be able to beat Lucien due to its powers. She also showed some common sense, as she immediately suspected Toad knew more than he let on about Lucien and demanded he tell the truth, and later became disappointed in Wario and Waluigi for even considering getting Lucien again after Mario beat Bowcien, especially after what happened to them earlier.
In Fortune Street, Daisy's personality is more heavily explored with the robust amount of dialogue among characters. She is shown to be impulsive and excitable, eager to take on big challenges and try new things; like scaling the Colossus and riding the flying train at the Observatory. She considers becoming a professional athlete when tasked to pick a new trade-in Alltrades Abbey, and she repeatedly remarks on wanting to take home cute creatures like Yoshi and Slime to have as pets. Daisy is shown to be domineering and direct to others, teasing and bossing Luigi around when his shops are not large enough. She also talks down to enemies like Wario, Waluigi, and Bowser, refusing to congratulate their success and criticizing their shops, believing they would commit foul play. The same game also shows she's not above pitching a fit or forcing others to pay up to allow her to get an expensive item at her request, based on some of her comments. She also implies that she has a bit of a ruthless side, as she makes clear that she's willing to "fight dirty" despite her status as a princess when warning others to not underestimate her. It is also hinted in her bio for Mario Party 3 as well as her comments to Birdo that she is a bit vain regarding her appearance.
Daisy's love for flowers is one of her most notable traits. In addition to having flower accessories/patterns on the majority of her outfits, her presents' room in Mario Party 4 notes Daisy likes to pick up flowers herself. In Fortune Street, Daisy says she would like to be gifted a flower bouquet rather than being gifted a victory. In the story mode of Mario & Sonic at the Olympic Winter Games, Daisy is ecstatic to see the flowers a Chao took care of for her and proceeds to kick off a Kiki who wants to damage them. According to the Super Game Boy Player's Guide, Daisy enjoys working in her castle's rose garden.

Overall, Daisy is usually an all-around or technique character in sports games. In Mario Superstar Baseball, she is a Balance type player who leans more towards Technique, and in Mario Power Tennis, she is a purely Technical player. Mario & Sonic at the Olympic Games was the first time Daisy was classified as a Speed player, but even then, her rounded technique still qualified her for a balanced range of event handicaps. Like other Super Mario characters, Daisy can punch, kick, jump, wall kick, and ground pound, as well being able to jump in midair in Super Mario Run. She has also been occasionally shown to have a strong swing, having the longest non-star drive of any human player in Mario Golf: Toadstool Tour. Daisy is also capable of using power-ups such as the Fire Flower among others, as shown for the first time in Super Mario Bros. Wonder.

Most of Daisy's abilities and powers use some sort of flower-related effect, either as a visual side-effect or an active part of the technique. These often take the form of making petals appear, ranging from her Flower Ball abilities in Mario Superstar Baseball, which use petals to obscure the ball from the opponents' view, to her offensive Mario Power Tennis move Wonder Flower, giving her hits special powers determined by the color of the petals surrounding her racket, to the simple visual flair they bring to her Mario Hoops 3-on-3 Flower Shot. In Mario Golf: World Tour, one of her victory animations even features her changing from her tennis outfit into her standard appearance in a flurry of petals. In other games, she can summon entire flowers from the ground, such as a garden fence and a patch of daisies to block other players from catching the ball hit with her Flower Swing in Mario Super Sluggers, or the bed of daisies appearing beneath her during her defensive Mario Power Tennis Flowerbed Return.

In Super Mario Strikers, Daisy is an offensive team captain. Her Super Strike is called the Torpedo Strike, and once more involves flower visuals behind her. However, in the sequel, Mario Strikers Charged, Daisy is a defensive team captain instead and is uniquely associated with crystal summoning abilities, having them erupt from the playing field for her Crystal Smash! Super Ability, and encasing her fist in them to punch the ball towards the goal during her Crystallized Daisy Mega Strike.
In Mario Party 3, she was shown to have enough physical strength to effortlessly send Bowser flying into the sky with just a single slap.

One of Daisy's closest relations is with Luigi. In NES Open Tournament Golf, Daisy is seen as Luigi's caddie and Mario Golf: Toadstool Tour shows Luigi and Daisy golfing alongside Peach and Mario. In her Mario Power Tennis victory scene, Daisy says, "Hey, sweetie!" to Luigi, and he gawks at her skating prowess. Also, in the Mario Baseball series, Luigi and Daisy share good chemistry. One of the most known references to their relationship occurs in Mario Kart Wii, where there is a giant, golden statue on Daisy Circuit that shows the two holding hands and dancing together, along with another of them as babies. In Super Smash Bros. Melee, Daisy's trophy states: "After her appearance in Mario Golf, some gossips started portraying her as Luigi's answer to Mario's Peach". Their team names from the Mario Party series include, "Steady Sweeties" and "Tango Tanglers". In Fortune Street, Daisy expresses disappointment upon landing on his cheap shop, telling him that "[he] could make this shop so much bigger!" Daisy and Luigi are seen walking together in Mario Party: Island Tour's opening cutscene. The sixth page of the official Mario Party 4 guide states that Luigi has a crush on Daisy. In Mario Tennis Aces, Daisy is shown to be worried for Luigi when he disappears with Wario and Waluigi after being corrupted by Lucien, telling Mario to "[p]lease... just bring Luigi back safely!"

Peach is Daisy's other closest friend. Daisy is often partnered with Peach by default in spin-off installments for the Super Mario franchise. The two share a team orb, the Flower Orb, in Mario Party 7 and share a team item, the Heart, in Mario Kart: Double Dash!!. Daisy and Peach share good chemistry in the Mario Baseball series, and Daisy is also on Peach's team in the Challenge Mode of Mario Super Sluggers. In Fortune Street, Daisy is encouraging Peach when she's going to win, saying, "I'm lovin' the girl power, Peach! Win this one for the ladies!" Mario Power Tennis's website says that Daisy is Peach's "sister in arms". Her bio from the Wii U version of Mario & Sonic at the Rio 2016 Olympic Games says she makes plans to go shopping with Peach in her downtime. In the Prima guides for Mario Kart: Double Dash!! and Mario Kart Wii, Daisy is stated to be Peach's cousin, a claim that has not been confirmed or denied by Nintendo. Before her official return in Mario Tennis and by extension, the start of Peach and Daisy's friendship, a 4-Koma segment of the manga Super Mario Kun depicted Daisy as being a rival of Peach, with the latter being jealous enough of Mario giving Daisy constant attention that she threw a mushroom at him in frustration.
Daisy and Mario are also shown to be on friendly terms. Early supplemental material for Super Mario Land such as the Super Game Boy Player's Guide indicates that Mario once had romantic feelings for Daisy, while the Kodansha manga depicts Daisy and Peach as longtime love rivals infatuated with Mario; however, outside of a heart that appears between them after Mario rescues Daisy from Tatanga, Mario and Daisy have not even shown any particularly friendly interactions in subsequent games until Mario Tennis Aces. In Mario Party 6, Mario and Daisy are given the team name "Nice Couple" when paired together, while they have neutral player chemistry in Mario Superstar Baseball or its sequel. In Mario Tennis Aces, she offered to come with Mario to help him save Luigi and also was the first to tell them about the flier. Also, she made clear that Mario defeated Lucien anyway, despite the racket's fearsome powers when reminding Waluigi and Wario about how the greedy duo caused disaster from the last time they tried to obtain Lucien.
Birdo appears to be a good friend of Daisy. In Fortune Street Daisy shares a friendly joke with Birdo when the latter is close to victory or Daisy swaps shops with her: "I'd give you a blue ribbon for first place, Birdo, but somehow I think you'd prefer a pink ribbon! Hee hee!". They show good chemistry in Super Mario Sluggers, and in Mario Party 8 their team name is "Gallopin' Gal Pals". In Mario Tennis, Birdo is Daisy's Doubles Partner. She also was seen partnering up with Rosalina for the tennis bout in Mario Sports Superstars, hinting at good ties between them. Toadette also appears to be in good terms with Daisy. In Super Mario Bros. Wonder, they are seen having a conversation while waiting for Prince Florian to show up. Later on when Bowser merges with the Flower Castle, causing a sequence of tremors, Daisy stops Toadette from falling over.
Daisy is also shown to be great friends with Amy Rose and Blaze the Cat from the Sonic the Hedgehog franchise. She and Peach are seen next to them in the opening of Mario & Sonic at the Olympic Winter Games with she and Blaze bonding in Ultimate Figure Skating. In Mario & Sonic at the London 2012 Olympic Games, she and Amy are often seen hanging out together as close friends.

Daisy and Waluigi have been portrayed as having a bad relationship, with several games depicting Daisy's interactions with Waluigi as negative. In the official Mario Party 4 guide, it says that Waluigi has a crush on Daisy, and their team name in Mario Party 5 and Mario Party 6 is "Awkward Date". In the Mario Baseball series, Daisy and Waluigi have bad chemistry. In Mario Strikers Charged, Waluigi is her opponent in Challenges mode. In Mario Kart 8, Waluigi is Daisy's rival when playing in the Grand Prix. In Fortune Street, Daisy seems to think lowly of Waluigi. If she lands on one of Waluigi's low-priced shops, she says that the shop is disappointing, and she is not surprised that the shop belongs to him, while when she lands on an average shop, she asks why she needs to stop here and she feels disgusted. In Mario Tennis Aces, she felt that Waluigi and Wario were more suspicious than usual, and also condemned them when they implied wanting to use Lucien again so they would become strong tennis players, especially when Mario already defeated Lucien, despite its ferocious abilities anyway.
In Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS and Super Smash Bros. for Wii U, Wendy O. Koopa's trophy states that she sees Peach and Daisy as her rivals. In Mario & Sonic at the Rio 2016 Olympic Games, Wendy calls Daisy a "poser" as well as "lame". In Mario Kart 8 Deluxe, Wendy has Daisy as one of her rivals.
Daisy, like anyone affiliated with Mario, has an antagonistic relationship with Bowser. With a surprising amount of strength, she smacks the Koopa King into the sky in Mario Party 3, and refers to him as a misfit in Mario & Sonic at the Olympic Winter Games after he and Dr. Eggman are defeated in the Adventure Tours mode. She also has bad chemistry with Bowser in the Mario Baseball series. In the final cinematic of Mario Super Sluggers, Daisy escorted Bowser and his son Bowser Jr. to the Daisy Cruiser during the night, showing she can be civil with him on occasions, although she still gives them both small portions of dessert compared to everyone else. In Fortune Street, Daisy sees no threat or significance in Bowser. If Bowser is about to win the game, Daisy says she refuses to congratulate Bowser "no matter how awesome he did". Bowser, likewise, denigrates Daisy's efforts, seeing her as lower than Peach in Fortune Street. In Mario Tennis Aces, she indicates that one of the biggest reasons she loathes Bowser is because of his willingness to cause conflicts or even worsen them just to settle his arch-rivalry with Mario, especially when Bowser tries empowering himself by stealing Lucien and the Power Stones while she, Peach, and Mario were dealing with the possessed Wario, Waluigi, and Luigi. After witnessing Lucien possess them, as well as learning its possible origin, she was shown to be very disturbed by the racket and was somewhat shaken even after its ultimate destruction. Despite this, Mario Party Superstars has her look visibly frightened of Bowser's presence if she lands on a Bowser Space.
Daisy and Petey Piranha have negative chemistry in Mario Superstar Baseball, though this is no longer the case in its sequel, while multiple specimens live in her garden in both Mario Hoops 3-on-3 and Mario Sports Mix, suggesting that they had a change of heart.

Daisy was introduced in Super Mario Land as a "tomboyish, full-of-spirit princess", and most subsequent bios characterize her similarly, commenting on her cheerfulness, spunk, and energy. Luigi's crush on her is sometimes mentioned, often with hints that she reciprocates. Stats-wise, she is usually a Technique or Balanced sports player, with a Medium weight in most Mario Kart titles.

Daisy is voiced/portrayed by the following: