Raccoon Mario (spelled Racoon Mario in Super Mario Bros. 3 materials) is a form Mario turns into after acquiring the Super Leaf, and as of New Super Mario Bros. 2, Luigi's form is called Fox Luigi. First seen in the game Super Mario Bros. 3, this form allows Mario to slowly float down when falling, using his tail. Mario can attack enemies with his tail by spinning. He is also able to briefly fly if he runs for a short time and then jumps. Though named for raccoons in English, most elements associated with the form are primarily inspired by the Japanese tanuki, which has legends of magical leaves granting the animal strange abilities; the Tanooki Mario transformation relates to this, having a full suit rather than just the ears and tail, and is additionally given a statue transformation in reference to tanuki abilities in folklore. However, the Japanese version of the Super Smash Bros. Melee trophy compares the tail to a raccoon's.
Raccoon Mario was created when Takashi Tezuka wanted a way for Mario to spin and knock away enemies with a tail. At first, the inclusion of a tailed Mario made him worried, but he wanted this new action to implemented in some way. However, the spin was originally meant for when Super Mario Bros. 3 was still using a bird's-eye view, so adjusting the controls to a side-view was a challenge. Flying was a mechanic Tezuka wanted to add since Super Mario Bros., and Raccoon Mario ultimately ended up being able to do both.
In Super Mario 3D Land, some enemies are also powered-up with Super Leaves, becoming "Tail" versions of themselves; this matches the original Japanese naming for Raccoon Mario. The game also removes the statue ability from the basic Tanooki form, making it more functionally similar to Raccoon Mario.

Raccoon Mario is first introduced in Super Mario Bros. 3, where Mario transforms into Raccoon Mario by obtaining a Super Leaf. When Mario is in this form, he can use his tail to slowly float down (by tapping ) or fly for a while if he fills the Power Meter (by running) beforehand, and tail whip enemies and blocks (by pressing ). A P-Wing will also transform Mario into Raccoon Mario, but with infinite flight; Mario keeps the infinite flight if he turns into Tanooki Mario. The benefit of a P-Wing will be lost once Mario takes damage, transforms into Fire Mario, Frog Mario, or Hammer Mario, or clears a level, the latter method reverting Raccoon/Tanooki Mario's flight to normal.

Even though Super Leaves return in Super Mario 3D Land, Raccoon Mario does not, though it was considered for the game; instead, it was passed over for Tanooki Mario, for visual clarity. The Tanooki form given by Super Leaves acts as Raccoon Mario does, but without flight. Despite this, several enemies have "Raccoon" forms (retranslated as "Tail" forms, as they only gain this form's tail), including normal-sized and Big Goombas, Bullet Bills, Boos, Thwomps, and Bob-ombs; Fake Blocks also have tails. Additionally, Tail Bowsers appear in World 1-Castle and World 5-Castle; they are actually a Goomba and Magikoopa, respectively, disguised with Super Leaves.

Raccoon Mario returns in New Super Mario Bros. 2, but Luigi's Raccoon form is now Kitsune-themed (like his Tanooki form in Super Mario 3D Land) and called Fox Luigi. Mario's Raccoon ears also have the same shape and color changes as those of his Tanooki form. The mechanics are somewhat different from Super Mario Bros. 3; the player can now simply hold the jump button instead of repeatedly pressing it for Mario to ascend and slowly descend, much like with Caped Mario. The tail whip is also quicker, usable underwater, and able to hit more enemies, like Dry Bones (which are immobilized but not killed as they were with Caped Mario). After being charged, the P-Meter now visibly decreases to show the amount of remaining flight time, but once Mario lands on the ground, it will be refilled. However, if he enters a Warp Cannon stage, he can fly almost indefinitely (if he repeatedly lands on platforms before the P-Meter runs out), much like when using a P-Wing.
Also, White Raccoon Mario (the counterpart of White Tanooki Mario from Super Mario 3D Land) debuts in this game. In addition to this form's abilities, it gives Mario invincibility for the stage, lets him walk on water (like his Mini form), and makes the P-Meter charge much faster than normal. Unlike the White Tanooki form, however, the White Raccoon form can be regained by losing five lives in a level, even after the level or final boss is beaten.
In this game, the Raccoon form adds a woodblock beat to the music, and when Mario touches the regular Goal Pole, he says, "Whoo! Mario number one!" (while Luigi says, "Ho ho! Number one!").

Raccoon Mario returns in Super Mario Maker and Super Mario Maker for Nintendo 3DS, where it is exclusive to the Super Mario Bros. 3 style, functioning just as it did in that game. Additionally, knocking on a Warp Door in the Super Mario Bros. 3 style may cause Weird Mario to appear in this form.

Although the form does not appear in Super Mario Odyssey, it is referenced in Pauline's quiz. For her question "Which of these things did I actually do a long time ago?", one of the possible answers is "Wore raccoon suit," which is incorrect.

Raccoon Mario returns in Super Mario Maker 2, functioning just as it did in its predecessor. Additionally, Luigi, Toad and Toadette are capable of obtaining this form, with the latter using this form for the first time.

A form of Raccoon Mario appears in Paper Mario: Sticker Star, in that by using a Tail sticker, Mario is given a raccoon tail to deflect enemy attacks for one turn. However, using the sticker only overlays it behind Mario, instead of turning him into Raccoon Mario. Bowser Jr. is particularly vulnerable to it in his third and final battle. A shiny variant of this sticker also exists, giving Mario a rainbow-colored tail and a stronger counterattack.

In Paper Mario: Color Splash, using a Tail card fully transforms Mario into Raccoon Mario, unlike in the previous game; he still deflects enemy attacks with his tail. It lasts until Mario takes damage or wins the fight. At least a few of these cards are required at the beginning of the boss fight with Ludwig in order to counter the cannonballs fired from the Ludship.

The Tail returns as an item that can be used in battle in Paper Mario: The Origami King, where it fully transforms Mario into Raccoon Mario, like in Paper Mario: Color Splash. The Shiny variant also returns, but now retains its original coloration as opposed to the sticker's bright color scheme. As Raccoon Mario, he directly attacks enemies in the same 2x2 area a Hammer attack reaches, rather than counterattacking foes, and a very brief time period (more than other items or weapons) allows the player to input an Action Command to deal more damage using the tail whip. Once the attack concludes, Mario reverts to normal.

In The Adventures of Super Mario Bros. 3, Toad and Princess Toadstool also transformed into Raccoon Toad and Raccoon Toadstool using Super Leaves, and in one instance, P-Wings. In the episode "Super Koopa", Bowser uses the magic pendant to become Raccoon Koopa. On several occasions, the form is referred to as Raccoon Power.

Mario briefly transforms into Raccoon Mario once in the Nintendo Comics System, in the story "It's Always Fair Weather" (which takes place before the events of Super Mario Bros. 3). Mario gains the ability by using a piece of a plant labeled as "Magic Leaf Raccoonias" for a toothpick and then uses his new-found ability to save some hot-air balloonists trapped in a cyclone that Bowser creates.

In the Club Nintendo comic "Marios Rückkehr," Mario somehow turns into Raccoon Mario after jumping on two trampolines consecutively. He is flying over the Mushroom Kingdom when he finds two Nintendo Gamer's Guides on a cloud, accidentally hitting a Koopa Paratroopa and falling to the ground.

Raccoon Mario has appeared in the form of collectible items throughout the Super Smash Bros. series. In Super Smash Bros. Melee, there is a trophy of Raccoon Mario that can be obtained from the Lottery randomly after collecting 250 trophies. In Super Smash Bros. Brawl, there is a sticker of Raccoon Mario that can be applied to any fighter in The Subspace Emissary to boost their flinch resistance by 112 points. In Super Smash Bros. Ultimate, Fox Luigi in particular is an Ace-class support spirit that grants the fighter easier dodging when used, and for the spirit's battle, the player faces Luigi in Raccoon form on the Mushroom Kingdom U stage.

Any fighter can take on the Raccoon form by using the Super Leaf item in Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS, Super Smash Bros. for Wii U, and Super Smash Bros. Ultimate. While in Raccoon form, a fighter can briefly float by holding the jump button in midair. Like with most other equipable items, the player can lose this form if they are hit enough times or with a strong enough attack; it will also disappear after enough time has passed. This form's tail whip was considered during development of Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS / Wii U, but it was later dropped.

Raccoon Mario was going to appear in Super Mario World, but the idea had later been dropped. In the SNES Test Program, Mario's graphics show him with the standard Raccoon tail and ears, which were also seen in preview images for Super Mario World. The transformation was ultimately cut and seems to have been replaced with Caped Mario, a transformation that functions similarly to Raccoon Mario, in the final game.