A recovery block (also known as a Heart Block or an HP Block) is a type of block seen in the Paper Mario and Mario & Luigi series of Super Mario role-playing games. Recovery blocks are commonly found in areas where a Save Block is present and before the player enters a boss area, and they fully restore the player's refillable stats when struck.

In Paper Mario, recovery blocks are transparent blocks with a sleeping red heart floating in the middle of each block. There are multiple different ones scattered throughout the game, each one refilling all of Mario's HP and FP when hit.

Recovery blocks return in Paper Mario: The Thousand-Year Door, only it now costs Mario five to twenty coins to use one, as indicated above each block. The amount of coins required generally increases as Mario progresses through the game. Their design is very similar to their appearance in Paper Mario. These blocks are usually, if not always, found right before a boss fight, and right when Mario enters a new area such as Hooktail Castle. In the Nintendo Switch remake only, Mario cannot use a recovery block if he and all of his partners' current HP and FP are at their maximums, preventing coin wastage.

Recovery blocks reappear in Paper Mario: Sticker Star, though they only fully recover Mario's HP. They function the same way as they do in Paper Mario, allowing Mario to use them at any time for free.

In the Japanese version of Mario & Luigi: Superstar Saga only, recovery blocks appear in three locations; Beanbean Castle Sewers, Oho Oasis, and Teehee Valley. They are white blocks with a red heart in the middle of the block. When hit, these blocks fully recover Mario and Luigi's HP and BP. The Nintendo 3DS remake of the game, Mario & Luigi: Superstar Saga + Bowser's Minions, retains the block in all versions of the game, and they are found in many more places, typically wherever there is a Save Album.

A few recovery blocks are found in Mario & Luigi: Partners in Time, though they are almost as scarce as in the Japanese version of Mario & Luigi: Superstar Saga. Their design in this game is that of a blue block with a magenta heart symbol in the middle of the block. There is one in Peach's Castle in the present, one inside Yoob's Belly, and one just before the throne room of Shroob Castle. As in Paper Mario, they are free to use.

In Mario & Luigi: Bowser's Inside Story and Mario & Luigi: Bowser's Inside Story + Bowser Jr.'s Journey, recovery blocks are replaced with Shop Blocks that can only be activated by Bowser's punch. These blocks can release Negative Ions that fully recover Bowser's HP and SP/BP. Orange-colored Emoglobins that are found in a few locations of Bowser's body, like the Trash Pit, secrete sweat that instantly recovers all of Mario and Luigi's HP and SP/BP.

Recovery blocks make a return in Mario & Luigi: Paper Jam, appearing as rainbow-flashing rectangular blocks with a pink heart on their fronts. They are more common than in the first two installments and are usually placed near locations where bosses are fought (like near the giant door to the summit of Mount Brrr which is where King Bob-omb is fought) as well as in Toad Villages. If the Mario trio hit a recovery block, their HP and BP are both fully restored.