Red Coins (also formatted as red coins) are a relatively common type of coin in the Super Mario franchise. The differences between a Yellow Coin and a Red Coin differ by game, but usually, Red Coins serve as important items to collect to get a reward. They are replaced by Purple Coins in Super Mario Galaxy and Super Mario Galaxy 2, which must be collected to acquire Power Stars.

Red coins are first seen in Super Mario World 2: Yoshi's Island, where they are disguised as regular coins. In the original SNES version, red coins have a slightly red tint to them, making them slightly easier to spot among regular coins; however, some of these coins are also tinted red (especially those collected from defeating certain enemies). In the Game Boy Advance version, Yoshi's Island: Super Mario Advance 3, red coins are often identical to regular coins until grabbed. The Magnifying Glass can be used in both games to display which coins are red coins. Though visually the same size as regular coins, red coins have a slightly larger hitbox.
There are 20 red coins in each level, and grabbing them adds one point for each coin to Yoshi's score tally at the end of the level. In addition, a pink variant of Bandit called the Coin Bandit appears occasionally and holds a red coin; they tend to run away from Yoshi, but if Yoshi grabs the red coin without touching the Coin Bandit, they instead act the same as a normal Bandit.

In the sequel to Yoshi's Island, Yoshi's Island DS, red coins work the same way as they did in their first appearance; however, the Magnifying Lens is absent in this game.

In Yoshi's New Island, red coins serve the same purpose as in the previous two Yoshi's Island games, though they now look exactly like regular coins.

Red Coins made their first main-series appearance in Super Mario 64, and returned in the Nintendo DS version. Each Red Coin is worth two Yellow Coins. Collecting all eight Red Coins in one level makes a Power Star appear over a Star Marker. In Super Mario 64 DS, similar to the regular coins, Red Coins are now in 3D and as a result, look octagonal. Exclusive to this version, some Bob-omb Buddies have the ability to detect red coins when the player talks to them.

Red Coins are once again seen in Super Mario Bros. Deluxe. In the game's Challenge Mode, they (along with Yoshi Eggs) can be collected to obtain medals. Each stage contains 5 Red Coins, and collecting them all will earn the player that stage's Red Coin Medal if they successfully reach the end. Despite the game's sprites being based primarily off those of the original Super Mario Bros., Red Coins have a vastly different appearance from normal coins, being more round with a circular imprint. The Album Book artwork depicts a Red Coin with Mario's face imprinted on it.

Red coins make another appearance in Super Mario Sunshine. Similar to Super Mario 64, collecting all eight in a level would make a Shine Sprite appear. However, red coins do not affect the player's total amount of Yellow Coins and are treated as a completely different currency altogether. Like blue coins, red coins replenish two health points on Mario's life meter. They appear with an imprint of a sun. Some areas have floor objects called Red Switch Plates (also localized as Red Blocks, red buttons, or red switches) that make red coins appear with a time limit.
In addition, red switches are located at the starting platform of Secret Levels, and when the player Ground Pounds the red switches, eight Red Coins appear and the timer is activated. Mario must then collect all 8 Red Coins before time runs out or he loses a life and must restart the level.

In New Super Mario Bros., there are Red Rings in several levels, and if Mario or Luigi goes through one, eight Red Coins appear. If he collects them all in the time limit, he is rewarded with a power-up. If Mario or Luigi are in a greater form than Super Mario (i.e. Fire Mario), he gets a 1-Up Mushroom instead of a power-up. Red Coins have the same value as regular coins, unlike in Super Mario 64.

Red Coins and Red Rings also make a return in New Super Mario Bros. Wii. They serve the same function as in the preceding game, this time giving power-ups to all on-screen players (excluding those in a bubble) when all eight coins are collected. Items are given corresponding to each player's power-up status. Unlike in the previous game, collecting Red Coins would give Small Mario a Fire Flower (or another equivalent power-up) instead of a Super Mushroom. Like before, if the player is fully powered-up, they will receive a 1-Up Mushroom when all of the Red Coins are collected.

Red Coins later appear along with Red Rings in Super Mario 3D Land, working like they do in the New Super Mario Bros. games. Unlike those games, however, only five Red Coins appear per ring, rather than eight.

Red Coins appear once again in New Super Mario Bros. 2. Like in the previous New Super Mario Bros. games, Mario or Luigi must collect eight of them to earn a power-up, a 1-Up Mushroom, or a Gold Mushroom (only in Coin Rush mode), depending on his current form. When Mario or Luigi touches a Red Ring, Red Coins could appear in predetermined locations, sometimes falling in parachutes.

Red Coins, along with Red Rings, reappear in New Super Mario Bros. U. They function as they did in New Super Mario Bros. Wii; all eight Red Coins must be collected for items to appear. The similar Green Coins and Green Rings make their debut appearance, which are used in a similar way but five sets of three coins must be collected instead of eight. Green Coins also disappear quicker.

Red Coins and Red Rings reappear in Super Mario 3D World and Super Mario 3D World + Bowser's Fury. They function as they do in the New Super Mario Bros. games, though they award the highest tier power-up (depending on the level) when collected, even when another such power-up is active. In Super Mario 3D World + Bowser's Fury, the Red Coin jingle was changed from C#, D, D#, E, F, F#, G, G  to a more natural progression: C, C#, D, D#, E, F, F#, G.

Red Coins and Red Rings reappear in Super Mario Run. Mario only needs to collect five Red Coins, similar to in Super Mario 3D Land. Collecting all five will give Mario a Super Star.

Red Coins sometimes appear in the Mario Party series. In Mario Party-e, their first appearance in the series, Red Coins are one of the main collectibles in Waluigi's Reign, where they are worth five points, more than the value of regular coins. In Mario Party DS, Red Coins appear in bonus mini-games, taking the role that coin bags had in previous Mario Party games, as they are, like coin bags, worth five Coins and less common. In Mario Party: Star Rush, Red Coins can be obtained in any of the Coin Chaos minigames, occasionally in Level 2 and very commonly in Level 3, but not in Level 1 unless an amiibo is used. With the Coin Bag item, five Red Coins will appear. Each Red Coin collected is worth three normal Coins. However, using the Double Medal item doubles this to a value of 6 normal Coins. If a Lava Bubble item is used, any source of coins, including Red Coins, and items burn up. In Super Mario Party, Red Coins appear in Partner Party, giving the character five coins when they pass one. In Super Mario Party's minigame Strike It Rich, a Red Coin can be produced from a ? Block if the player times a jump perfectly, and collecting one is worth three regular Coins.

In Mario Net Quest, Red Coins are a collectible item. They give the player 1000 points when clicked.

Red Coins appear in Mario Golf: Toadstool Tour of the Coin Shoot mode. They are worth 10 coins when the ball is near them.

In Mario Pinball Land, if Mario hits a Red Switch hard enough, eight Red Coins pop out and land in almost every area in the level. Mario has to find the eight Red Coins around the level within the time limit, like with the Red Coin missions in Super Mario Sunshine. Once Mario obtains all of the Red Coins in time, he obtains a Star; otherwise, the Red Coins disappear and need to be collected again in the same locations after the Red Switch is hit again. Collecting a Red Coin grants 5,000 points and also counts as one regular coin.

Red Coins in Mario Power Tennis appear as 8-bit Mario Bros. sprites in the mini-game Coin Collectors. They are worth fifty points when collected.

Red Coins appear in Mario Hoops 3-on-3 under the name 10 Coins. They can be found in ? Panels, and as evident by their name are worth ten normal Coins. They are only found if the player manages to combo the dribbling of acquiring the coins without being interrupted. These coins have a star imprint unlike the regular coins in the game.

Red Coins appear in the 3DS title, Luigi's Mansion: Dark Moon, with a slightly more octagonal shape. In some missions, there are hidden challenges where Luigi must collect the eight Red Coins within a time limit to reveal a treasure chest. They also appear as upgrade bonuses in the multiplayer mode, ScareScraper. Each time a floor is cleared, four Red Coins appear. Whoever collects the most Red Coins has a better chance of getting an upgrade.

Red Coins make appearances in the Dream World of Mario & Luigi: Dream Team as a time-based challenge. In locations such as Dreamy Somnom Woods or Dreamy Wakeport, hitting a Red Coin Block spawns eight Red Coins in a specific area. Mario and Dreamy Luigi must collect all of them to progress.

In Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS and Super Smash Bros. Ultimate, eight Red Coins appear in the Golden Plains stage when a fighter passes through a Red Ring. Each Red Coin is worth five normal Coins.

In the Mario + Rabbids series, Red Coins and Red Rings first appear in Mario + Rabbids Kingdom Battle, where eight of them need to be collected. Collecting all eight reveals a treasure chest containing a new weapon for Mario and co. to use. They also return in Mario + Rabbids Sparks of Hope.

After having been replaced by Stamp Patches in its predecessor, Yoshi's Woolly World, Red Coins return in Yoshi's Crafted World. This time, they are distinguishable from regular Coins in that they spin counterclockwise, whereas regular Coins spin clockwise. Unlike in the previous Yoshi games, they have an imprint of a Yoshi's Egg.

In Mario Kart Tour, Red Coins appear in the Coin Rush mode and in bonus challenges. When a driver with the Coin Box special item is upgraded to level 4, the item becomes Coin Box+ and may also spew Red Coins in place of normal coins. As in Super Mario 64, they are worth two coins.

Super Mario World was originally going to have flying Red Coins that are worth five regular coins if collected, but they were unused during the game's development. They can only be accessed by hacking the game.