The Rescue Squad Chief is a character in Paper Mario: Color Splash. He is a Toad found in Port Prisma, specifically south of the yellow district. Although he does not appear often, he serves an important role in the game. He is in charge of all five Rescue Squads, specifically their captains. If Mario talks to him, the chief informs him how many Toads are left to be found in a squad. Additionally, if Mario has yet to find the captain of a squad, the members of that squad report to the chief for roll call.

The Rescue Squad Chief first appears once Mario has started rounding up the members of the purple rescue squad. He informs Mario of the number of members of the squad yet to be found. If Mario has not found the captain, the Toads report to the captain for roll call. Once all of the Toads along with their captain have been found, they are dismissed and sent to their destination. This proves to be helpful with later squads with more members.
In a particular instance, a Toad Mario rescues from the Sacred Forest comes to the chief wanting to join the red rescue squad - however, he is turned down because of his size. He weeps over this until Mario is able to use the Magnifying Glass to restore his size. The Rescue Squad Chief is surprised by his return but welcomes him as a new member.
Once all of the rescue squad members have been found and dismissed, the Rescue Squad Chief no longer serves any purpose in the game, but remains in his position and can be talked to at any time.

At the beginning of this episode, the Rescue Squad Chief appears to instruct the squad captains at their headquarters. He thanks them for supporting Mario on his adventure but informs them that as the protagonist, Mario will be able to take credit for all of their actions. The captains are noticeably upset about this, arguing their value to the game. They recite their contributions to Mario's progress, convincing the chief they deserve respect. He now convinces them not to let Mario take credit, and to serve as protagonists of their own.

The Rescue Squad Chief does not appear again until the finale, where he is again the main character and now the narrator. He misinterprets several of Mario's actions and the squad's methods, such as flying out of the Sunset Express, chopping onions at the Tangerino Grill, and battling the Steak. With the chief now admiring Mario's cooking, the captains remind him of their accomplishments. However, he starts to foreshadow the ending of the game, including Black Bowser's Castle and Princess Peach having her color drained. With the events wrapped up, they realize Rescue Red has lost his color. Fortunately, Mario, the only one capable of restoring his color, shows up. He manages to do so, persuading the chief to declare Mario the main character and disband the squads, much to their outrage.