Rescue Purple is a character in Paper Mario: Color Splash. He is the captain of the purple Rescue Squad, consisting of four members including himself. He is found in Ruddy Road, with his fellow members found in Sunglow Ridge, Daffodil Peak, and Bloo Bay Beach, respectively. He and his comrades are needed to create steps allowing Mario to reach the Fire Extinguisher Thing. Rescue Purple also stars in a seven-part series, Rescue V: Fearless Color Defenders, in which he narrates certain events in the game. He reappears in Paper Mario: The Origami King, serving a much smaller purpose.

Rescue Purple is not shown in any sign of distress - he simply awaits Mario along Ruddy Road. He introduces himself as the leader of his squad, explaining people have reported having trouble getting past the cliff. They were sent out to investigate, but none of his members have shown up yet. He asks Mario to go searching for them, sending them his way once they are found. When Huey tells him he loves their uniforms, Rescue Purple explains their true purpose - to search for injustice and make it right. He tells Mario to talk to the Rescue Squad Chief in Port Prisma if he is having trouble finding the remaining members.
Once all three members of the purple Rescue Squad have been found, they report to their captain in Ruddy Road for roll call. He thanks Mario for bringing them back, only for Huey to explain they were slacking off a bit. They make it up to him by laying themselves flat on the ground, telling Mario to finish the job. Mario must jump on the pile four times to launch each Toad into the cliff wall, creating steps allowing him to reach the Fire Extinguisher. As Mario hops up these steps, they recite their squad number/position.
Rescue Purple reappears in time for the ending sequence, saluting alongside the other captains on the balcony below Mario, Princess Peach and Toad.

Rescue Purple appears in every episode of the mini-series, either as a main character or as a brief commentator. He also appears in the theme song of every episode.

Rescue Purple is summoned before the chief alongside the other captains. When the chief tells them their efforts toward Mario will go unnoticed, he becomes noticeably distraught, claiming they carried Mario on their backs, showing him literally using their backs to scale the cliff wall in Ruddy Road. This, along with the other examples, convinces the chief to send them out to prove their worth, which they gladly do.

Although the second episode does not star him, Rescue Purple turns out to be a crucial part of the second episode when Rescue Red takes credit for his squad's efforts. When he is ignored twice after trying to explain it to him, Rescue Purple insists the red Rescue Squad did not contribute anything in that instance.

After Rescue Blue has finished telling of his achievements, Rescue Purple thanks him, as it gave them a chance to party at Oceanfest. Rescue Blue becomes so angry upon learning this his face turns purple, leaving Rescue Purple to sign off.

As Rescue Yellow is showing Mario using the Bone to destroy Iggy's chariot, Rescue Purple mentions he sees it as an unfair advantage, with Rescue Yellow claiming it is self defense.

As the other captains are waiting for Rescue Green to snap out of it, Rescue Purple talks about the Yoshis invading the circus performance. He becomes angry when Rescue Green wakes up, telling him he missed the chance to talk about his squad.

Rescue Purple stars in the sixth episode as the prime narrator. He starts by introducing himself, then the pirates who traveled across the sea with Mario. He exaggerates the target practice, with the others trying to calm him down. He mistakes Mario firing a cannonball at a mushroom rock with Mario hitting an actual Toad, only to be corrected by Rescue Red. He ends with Mario arriving at Fortune Island before formally signing off.

Rescue Purple assembles along with the other captains before the chief a second time. He reminds the chief he is supposed to be talking about their accomplishments, and becomes angry when he almost spoils the ending. He quickly notices Rescue Red having lost his color, saying he was so mad he burned them off. Although they are happy with Mario restoring his colors, this results in the chief disbanding the squads, firing him along with the other captains.

In Paper Mario: The Origami King, Rescue Purple appears along with the other captains as training targets in the ring machine at the Battle Lab.