Rescue Blue is a character in Paper Mario: Color Splash. He is the captain of the blue Rescue Squad, comprising of twenty-four members including himself. Unlike certain other captains, he is in no sign of distress, simply appearing in front of the Kiwano Temple next to the Sunset Express conductor, addressing the broken railroad in front of them. His fellow members are found elsewhere, mainly at Fort Cobalt. He and his comrades substitute themselves to fill in the railroad, allowing the Sunset Express to move on a bit before it is ultimately crushed. Rescue Blue also stars in a seven-part series, Rescue V: Fearless Color Defenders, in which he narrates certain events in the game. He reappears in Paper Mario: The Origami King with a slight cameo.

Later in the game, Rescue Blue appears outside Kiwano Temple. He and the Sunset Express conductor are addressing the missing piece of the railroad, destroyed by Mario when he was first trying to get into the temple. His comrades, on the other end, are more difficult to find. Once each of them are found, they report to their captain at the temple. (If the captain has not been talked to yet, these Toads report to the Rescue Squad Chief for roll call instead.)
After their final roll call before the captain, they are instructed to get into position. Certain Toads are folded up into the shape of tracks, while the others carry them up, put them into place, and stretch out over them. This effectively allows the Sunset Express passage, before it is crushed by a Thwomp. Despite this, the train is able to continue to the Tangerino Grill.
Rescue Blue appears in the ending sequence, saluting alongside the other captains on the balcony below Mario, Princess Peach and Toad.

Rescue Blue appears in most episodes of the mini-series, either as a main character or as a brief commentator. He also appears in the theme song of every episode.

Along with the other captains, Rescue Blue is sent to the chief, waiting at their headquarters. He acknowledges their achievements but explains that with Mario being the protagonist, they will likely go unnoticed. Like the other captains, he is noticeably frustrated, claiming they would sing songs of bravery if their stories were told, demonstrating laying themselves out as tracks as an example. The chief is persuaded to give them a chance to do so. He accepts, along with all of the other captains.

Rescue Blue stars in the third episode as the prime narrator. Notably, his tagline claims he is an "aspiring blues musician". He informs the audience of their mission - to infiltrate the base. He states although the conditions were rough and lonely, they managed to discover the super weapon's secret weakness, allowing Mario to defeat it. To this, Rescue Purple thanks him for giving them the chance to go to Oceanfest. Having just discovered this, Rescue Blue becomes so angry his face turns purple. He does not mind this, but decides to head off to Oceanfest for a while, forcing Rescue Purple to sign off for him.

As Rescue Yellow is talking about Mario utilizing a Super Star to defeat his opponents at the Golden Coliseum, Rescue Blue asks if it would be against the rules, to which Rescue Yellow replies it is part of the challenge and therefore implored. As Rescue Yellow is showing his squad yanking the Turnip out of the giant Warp Pipe, Rescue Blue claims Mario was probably doing the heavy lifting.

While Rescue Red talks to Rescue Green, Rescue Blue fills in for him along with the others. When it is discovered he had dozed off, he becomes angry at him for missing the chance to talk about his team.

As Rescue Purple talks about Mario fighting a giant squid in the waters, Rescue Blue corrects him, saying it was called a Blooper. Like the others, he is ignored. He claims his rescue squad was the true treasure of the island just before Rescue Purple signs off.

Similar to the other captains, Rescue Blue allows the chief to narrate the closing events, but becomes annoyed when he goes off topic and nearly spoils the ending. He is the first one to notice Rescue Red having lost his color. Shortly after, Mario arrives to restore it. Unfortunately, this assures the chief of Mario's importance, leading him to fire all of the captains and disband their squads.

In Paper Mario: The Origami King, Rescue Blue appears along with the other captains as training targets in the ring machine at the Battle Lab.