Reznors (alternatively pluralized as Reznor), also called Reznor Rhinos or Rhino Dinos, are mini-bosses introduced in Super Mario World. They are fire-breathing Triceratops that were cursed by Bowser. Reznors are named after Trent Reznor of the industrial rock band Nine Inch Nails.

A group of four Reznors are fought as bosses in Vanilla Fortress, the Forest Fortress, the Chocolate Fortress, and the Valley Fortress in Super Mario World. They are faced in a room with a bridge over lava, standing on four platforms mounted on a suspended, rotating set of wooden planks bearing their name, spitting fireballs in the direction of the player, who can dissipate these projectiles with the swipe of a cape in caped form. To defeat the Reznors, the player must knock them off their platforms either by hitting their platforms from underneath or by striking them with fireballs. Once two of the Reznors are defeated, the bridge below gradually breaks away starting from the sides, leaving the player to either try and defeat the other two Reznors before the entire bridge collapses, otherwise, the player can jump on one of the vacated platforms to continue the fight from there.
Prototype assets reveal "Bunbun" as a tentative phrase on Reznor's sign, possibly indicating that it was Boom Boom earlier in development.

Reznors reappear in New Super Mario Bros. 2, serving as the game's tower bosses. Their appearance has changed slightly, with their lower jaws and belly having a lighter tone, and their heads redesigned to better resemble those of Triceratops. The platforms they stand on are now coin-giving Long ? Blocks with a width of three blocks rather than two, and the word "REZNOR" on the boards behind the wheel is gone. Reznors roar when the player character enters the boss room, and the battle starts. Their theme is now a cover of the Super Mario World boss battle theme. Unlike in Super Mario World, which only features a group of four on a single four-platform wheel, Reznors can appear either in groups of two or four, and their wheel and bridge setups can also vary. They do not attack as frequently as before, the fireballs they spit move slower, they roar and stomp their blocks when half of them are defeated to force the bridges in their room to collapse, and the bridges do not collapse as quickly. While they can still be knocked off by striking their platforms from below, it now takes six fireballs to defeat one Reznor. They can also be taken out by one gold fireball (which yields 30 coins), or contact with a player under the effects of the Invincibility Leaf.

Although Reznors themselves do not appear in Mario Golf: World Tour, a Reznor costume is available for Miis to wear, and they can also use a ball and set of golf clubs that are based on a Reznor.

In Super Mario Adventures, several Reznors are shown to inhabit the basement of the Koopalings' Tower, attacking anyone who is dumped into the basement. These Reznor were apparently destroyed when, after attacking Princess Toadstool, Friendly Floyd, Mario, Luigi, Toad, and Yoshi, the Reznor ignited a bomb held by Princess Toadstool, blowing up the Koopalings' Tower.
Later in Super Mario Adventures, several Reznors, riding their spinning platforms, can be seen at Bowser's wedding to Princess Toadstool.

Reznors appear in the Super Mario World adaption of the Japanese manga Super Mario-kun.
In the second 4-koma of the first volume, they attempt to spin very quickly in order to make it harder to hit them, but due to the speed, they fall off their platforms from dizziness.
They reappear in volume 4, where Mario tosses Yoshi to their contraption, making three of them fall. The remaining Reznor attacks Mario directly by charging at him, knocking Mario onto a Switch Palace. Inside, there are many Spinies and a Gray P Switch. Mario uses the switch to turn the enemies into Gray Coins, score multiple lives, and clone himself into Mario x99, who then defeat the Reznor.

In the Super Mario Mash-up in Minecraft, Ravagers are replaced by Reznors.

Reznors appear in the LEGO Super Mario set 71390: Reznor Knockdown.

★ブイブイ
クッパのもとで砦のボスとして働いている恐竜系キャラクター。悪に身を売った世措て恐竜で、ヨッシーとの関係を語りたがからない。
★Reznor
A dinosaurian character who works as the boss of Koopa's fortresses. A reclusive dinosaur who sold itself to evil, it doesn't want to talk about its relationship with Yoshi.