Rhythm Heaven Fever (Beat the Beat: Rhythm Paradise in PAL regions) is a rhythm game for the Wii released in 2011 in Japan, 2012 in North America, Europe, and Australia, and in 2013 in South Korea. It is the third installment in the Rhythm Heaven series, released between Rhythm Heaven for the Nintendo DS and Rhythm Heaven Megamix for the Nintendo 3DS.
Developed by Nintendo SPD, Rhythm Heaven Fever is related to the WarioWare series, as prior to its merge into Nintendo EPD, Nintendo SPD was responsible for the development of both WarioWare and Rhythm Heaven games.

Rhythm Heaven Fever, like other games in its series, is a rhythm game that uses animation and sound cues to indicate to the player how to time button presses. It consists of a collection of minigames, each having its own music and gameplay mechanics. During the single-player campaign, after every fourth Rhythm Game there is a Remix which combines together the mechanics of the previously played minigames, quickly switching between them in a manner similar to the gameplay of the WarioWare series.
Compared to other Rhythm Heaven games, Fever has the simplest control scheme in the series. Every action is either performed by pressing  or by pressing  and  simultaneously.
In addition to the standard Rhythm Games featured in the single-player campaign, Rhythm Heaven Fever also features unlockable Endless Games, two-player versions of some Rhythm Games, and a few unlockable Two-Player Endless Games.

Kung Fu Ball is a Two-Player Endless Game unlocked after achieving a Superb in four different standard Two-Player Games. One player plays as the WarioWare character Young Cricket, and the other plays as the original character Cicada, although she was not named yet at the time of Rhythm Heaven Fever's release.
In the minigame, Young Cricket and Cicada are students of a kappa training in the "ancient art of Kung Fu Ball". The two students hit a ball back and forth, while occasionally performing more advanced techniques.

Cicada from Kung Fu Ball has gone on to appear in various ways in the WarioWare series, referencing her and Young Cricket's roles in Kung Fu Ball. WarioWare: Move It!, released in 2023 for the Nintendo Switch, gives Cicada both a speaking role and a name for the first time. In the ending cutscene for Battle on Flashfreeze Cape!, she refers to Young Cricket as a "fellow disciple", although Young Cricket and Master Mantis do not recognize her.
The Reporter and Wrestler from Ringside have made several cameos in the WarioWare series, including the opening cinematics for Game & Wario and WarioWare: Move It!, the microgame Get Swole in WarioWare: Get It Together!, and a reference to the Wrestler in Mr. Sparkles' rank A character card in WarioWare Gold.