Rising Tides of Lava, or Peach's Castle-3, is the third course of Peach's Castle in New Super Mario Bros. U. It takes place in an underground volcano with rising lava.

The course constantly has lava rising from below to a certain point, and Big Buzzy Beetles can be used as platforms to navigate over the lava. 
The player starts next to a ledge before a Big Buzzy Beetle, which is followed by a ? Block containing a Super Mushroom/Fire Flower, then by a Screwtop Shroom where the player has to turn the screw to get the platform to rise. After a group of Big Buzzy Beetles, the player will come to a group of Brick Blocks with a Koopa Troopa walking above them; Ground Pounding the column of Brick Blocks and kicking the Koopa into the pit will cause it to bounce between two Coin Blocks. By lowering the next mushroom platform, the player can reach a Roulette Block that can be hit with a nearby Koopa. In the second-from-the-left in the row of Brick Blocks afterward is a P Switch, which will cause two trails of Blue Coins to appear: One through small platforms and one through a group of Spike Tops, both of which merging back to a bridge of Coins turned into Brick Blocks if the P Switch is still active. By taking the top of the split path afterward, the player will reach the Checkpoint Flag.
After the flag is a ? Block with a powerup that can be reached by using a Big Buzzy Beetle as a platform. Next are two purple mushroom platforms, the second of which rises when the first lowers, followed by a small crevice with Coins and a Koopa Troopa above. Next is an area with Big Buzzy Beetles, followed by two purple mushroom platforms with the same set-up as the previous pair, though the second one is longer and has two ? Blocks above it. In the ? Block between rock platforms is a Super Mushroom/Fire Flower. Next is a group of three purple mushroom platforms, with the first and third lowering and the second rising. To enter the Warp Pipe, the player needs to use the Big Buzzy Beetle as a platform, which will take the player to the area with the Goal Pole.