RMX Donut Plains 1 is a race course in Mario Kart Tour that debuted in the Battle Tour. It is a remix course based on the Donut Plains courses from Super Mario Kart, and as such, features flat grassland and large ponds. The course features Cheep Cheeps, giant trickable lily pads, and giant lotus leaves. This is the first RMX course and the first course overall that is not a new course to include the R/T variant in its debut.
It shares its music with SNES Donut Plains 1, SNES Donut Plains 2, and SNES Donut Plains 3, which is the original arrangement from Super Mario Kart.

The course begins with a similar layout to Donut Plains 3 from Super Mario Kart. Players drive forward briefly before making a right turn, where they encounter Cheep Cheeps and bounce off of lily pads that act similarly to mushroom trampolines. Players then take a large right turn before approaching another lily pad, then they take a U-turn to the left and drive over a bridge. Racers then take a wide right turn before gliding over a pond. After landing again, racers drive for a short period before taking another U-turn, before a final slight left bend to the finish line.
This course also appears as RMX Donut Plains 1R (reversed), RMX Donut Plains 1T (with ramps), and RMX Donut Plains 1R/T (reversed with ramps). In the R and R/T variants, the gliding section is gone; racers use lily pads to cross the pond. In the T variant, racers drive across several mushroom trampolines, including a blue one. In the R/T variant, several water geysers erupt from the pond, and one erupts from a pipe at the end of the track.
It is possible to bounce off the course's lotus leaves; in the T variant, drivers can glide onto one, while in the R/T variant, a Dash Panel ramp leads onto several.

For this course's tour appearances, see List of RMX Donut Plains 1 tour appearances in Mario Kart Tour.

The following are the drivers, karts, and gliders for which RMX Donut Plains 1 and its variants are always favored or favorite courses. For instances in which additional drivers, karts, and gliders temporarily had this course and its variants as favored or favorite courses, see List of RMX Donut Plains 1 tour appearances in Mario Kart Tour.