RMX Rainbow Road 2 is a race course in Mario Kart Tour. Like RMX Rainbow Road 1, it is a remix version of the Rainbow Road course from Super Mario Kart that debuted in the New Year's 2021 Tour. The course's R/T variant debuts in the 2021 Space Tour, though it was previously leaked in promotional pictures for the New Year's 2021 Tour and the 2021 Paris Tour.
Like RMX Rainbow Road 1, it shares its music with SNES Rainbow Road, using the arrangement from Mario Kart 7.

The course uses the same aesthetics as Rainbow Road from Super Mario Kart, but has a different layout. After the starting line, racers immeditaley encounter the first of many mushroom trampolines from 3DS Rainbow Road. There is then a right turn leading to a split path, with one mushroom trampoline on each. After another right turn, another mushroom trampoline, and then a left turn, there is a straightaway with two Star Thwomps. After another right turn, the track angles upwards and racers bounce off of four mushroom trampolines in a row. This then leads to a wider section after a left turn that then leads into a blue mushroom trampoline. After passing one last Star Thwomp, racers reach the finish line.
The course also appears as RMX Rainbow Road 2R (reversed), RMX Rainbow Road 2T (with ramps) and RMX Rainbow Road 2R/T (reversed with ramps). The former two debuted alongside the normal variant in the New Year's 2021 Tour, while the latter debuted in the 2021 Space Tour. In the R variant, the blue mushroom trampoline has been shifted towards the starting line and the first Star Thwomp is gone as a result. Two of the regular mushroom trampolines are also gone. In the T and R/T variants, all Star Thwomps are gone and there is instead a Big Piranha Plant. In the T variant, the Big Piranha Plant lies on the final turn, and racers encounter two blue mushroom trampolines and two star rings immediately after. In the R/T variant, four of the mushroom trampolines are gone (including the blue one), and the Big Piranha Plant is in the middle of the split path.

For a list of this course's tour appearances, see List of RMX Rainbow Road 2 tour appearances in Mario Kart Tour.

The following are the drivers, karts, and gliders for which RMX Rainbow Road 2 and its variants are always favored or favorite courses. For instances in which additional drivers, karts, and gliders temporarily had this course and its variants as favored or favorite courses, see List of RMX Rainbow Road 2 tour appearances in Mario Kart Tour.