RMX Choco Island 2 is a race course in Mario Kart Tour. Like RMX Choco Island 1, it is a remix version of the Choco Island courses from Super Mario Kart. It debuted in the Peach vs. Daisy Tour.
Like Choco Island 1, Choco Island 2, and RMX Choco Island 1, it uses Choco Island 2's arrangement from Mario Kart DS.

Like RMX Choco Island 1, the course uses the same aesthetics as the Choco Island courses from Super Mario Kart, but has a completely different layout. Many ramps, pipes, and Piranha Plants appear in the course. The course starts out with a right turn onto a ramp with some Item Boxes. Next, there is a left turn with two routes. The first route contains two ramps and one large ramp with some Item Boxes. The second route, which can only be accessed with a Mushroom, a Frenzy, or an angled trick off one of the ramps, features a glide ramp with some more Item Boxes. After that, there is a slight turn to the right, which contains a ramp with an Item Box underneath in the middle, two more ramps, some more Item Boxes, and a ramp with a Big Piranha Plant on it. After a left turn, the course ends with a ramp with a dash panel on it just before the finish line.
The course also appears as RMX Choco Island 2R (reversed), RMX Choco Island 2T (with ramps) and RMX Choco Island 2R/T (reversed with ramps). The former two debuted alongside the normal variant in the Peach vs. Daisy Tour, while the latter debuted in the 2023 Doctor Tour. In the R variant, racers can use a glide ramp to reach the second route, and the Big Piranha Plant has been moved next to this glide ramp. In the T variant, racers are directed onto the second route, and its glide ramp is gone. In the R/T variant, there is a second Big Piranha Plant.

For this course's tour appearances, see List of RMX Choco Island 2 tour appearances in Mario Kart Tour.

The following are the drivers, karts, and gliders for which RMX Choco Island 2 and its variants are always favored or favorite courses. For instances in which additional drivers, karts, and gliders temporarily had this course and its variants as favored or favorite courses, see List of RMX Choco Island 2 tour appearances in Mario Kart Tour.