A Rocket Start (also referred to as a Rocket Boost, Turbo Start, Boost Start, Head Start, Start Dash, or starting dash) is a racing technique appearing mainly in games of the Mario Kart series. A Rocket Start is a powerful burst of speed that occurs at the beginning of every race, and it easily accelerates racers to top speed from standing still.

In the Mario Kart series,  the Rocket Start technique is executed by holding the acceleration button at the correct time in the starting countdown, with each game having different timing to do so, although the general timing of the technique in most games is to press the button sometime when the number 2 or equivalent appears onscreen. If the player holds the button too early and over-revs when the final beep sounds, the player's vehicle will backfire and stall for a few seconds at the beginning of the course (sometimes known as a Dud Start or Fail Start).

Since Mario Kart DS, the strength of the Rocket Start depends on the power of the rev at the moment before GO! (START in Mario Kart DS) appears onscreen. For example, if the player starts to rev the engine when the countdown reaches 2, depending on when the player started to hold down the acceleration button when 2 was onscreen, the duration of the technique can be roughly between 0.5 and two seconds, indicated by the flames coming out of the exhaust pipes of the vehicle (ink when the player drives the Inkstriker or Splat Buggy, magic when the player drives Kamek's Zoom Broom or its variants, and soda when the player drives the Combo Cruiser). In other words, if the player starts to rev right at the moment the countdown reaches 2, the resulting launch from the starting grid would be longer than if the player started to rev half a second after the 2 came onscreen. In Mario Kart Tour, in addition to the technique from previous games, releasing the tap when GO! appears onscreen (due to auto-accelerate permanently being enabled) results in the Rocket Start being longer and awarding more bonus points than usual, with the character's "item success" animation indicating a longer boost. A bonus challenge called Ready, Set, Rocket Start grades players on how many points they earned for the Rocket Start.

To perform a Rocket Start, drivers must press and hold the corresponding acceleration button when the race is about to begin. How and when to use it depends on which installment in the series and which control scheme the player uses.

In Mario Kart Arcade GP, Rocket Starts are performed the same as in Mario Kart: Super Circuit and Mario Kart: Double Dash!! In Mario Kart Arcade GP 2 and Mario Kart Arcade GP DX, they are performed by pressing down on the accelerator when "1" appears on the screen.

A type of Rocket Start, the Double Dash, can be performed only in the co-op play mode of Mario Kart: Double Dash!!, and it is named after the game's subtitle. Both players must press  at the same time when the three red lights on Lakitu's starting signal turn green to perform this technique, which launches the kart at a higher speed. Blue flames follow the kart, showing that the technique was performed correctly.
In Mario Kart Tour, a number of karts have the Rocket Start Plus special skill, which increases boosting time and points from Rocket Starts. These karts are shown in the following table:

In Diddy Kong Racing, the Rocket Start is referred to as a Jump Start (also formatted as jump start), and it is timed with  as the words "Get Ready" begin to fade, resulting in an orange boost. Waiting a little longer before pressing  results in a super jump start, which is indicated with a turquoise boost.
The following table shows the controls required to perform a jump start in racing games of the Donkey Kong franchise.

At the beginning of a Cosmic Mario or Cosmic Luigi race in Super Mario Galaxy, if the player holds  up, then  when the timer reaches "2," and then hits  just as the race starts, Mario or Luigi will get an extra boost at the beginning of the race. This can be shown by a yellow color appearing on Mario or Luigi, shrinking gradually, showing the end of the speed boost.

In Mario & Sonic at the Olympic Games, the Start Dash is used at the beginning of a track event. In the Wii version, players hold down the  button to build up the energy of their character. Once the "GO" sign appears on the screen, releasing the button and swinging the  downward will make the racer rocket out of the blocks. In the Nintendo DS version, holding the  down on the touch screen will charge up the energy and releasing will activate the speed boost.

In Paper Mario: Color Splash, the Rocket Start is used by Luigi in his Standard Kart before he transports Mario and Huey up the rainbow to Black Bowser's Castle near the end of the game. It uses Mario Kart 8's chimes.

The opening of The Super Mario Bros. Movie shows Stuart from the Despicable Me series revving up the kart engine at the starting line before backfiring as the Illumination logo lights up. The kart then goes very fast as if the Rocket Start had succeeded after Stuart hits the kart.