Rogueport is the hub world and starting point in Paper Mario: The Thousand-Year Door. It was built by generations of poor folk after the battle between the four heroes and the Shadow Queen. The area was barren and in ruins, so the people built Rogueport over the old city, which is now Rogueport Underground. Over the centuries, only a handful of people have seen the Thousand-Year Door. Even a thousand years later it still contains a great evil power. Those who live in the sewers fear the area where the Door is.
Mario comes here at the beginning of the game to meet Princess Peach because she found the Magical Map. In Rogueport, there are two item shops. There is an inn and a Chuckola Cola bar, the Lovely Howz of Badges, the Pianta Parlor, and two entrances to the Rogueport Underground.
The town is divided into five sections, the north side, the west side, the main plaza, the docks, and the east side. Mario will be moving through here constantly throughout the game. He can also find his brother Luigi in the different areas of Rogueport during different chapters.

Rogueport Harbor is the starting point of Mario's adventure. Right after arriving, he meets Goombella and gets into a big fight with the X-Nauts and Lord Crump. The workers at the docks are not surprised by struggles in the area and try to warn Mario to keep away from Lord Crump.
Ships regularly anchor at the place. During his adventures in Rogueport, Mario takes Flavio's ship, the S.S. Flavion, to Keelhaul Key from here. Later, Mario returns to the mainland aboard Cortez's ship, the Black Skull. The Black Skull continues to anchor at the site after Chapter 5. People Mario can meet at the docks include Lumpy and Pa-Patch (before Chapter 5). The docks are in their majority are Bob-ombs and some Toads.
There is also a hidden area to the left of the harbor itself that is only accessible once Mario can use Boat Mode. This area contains a chest with the HP Drain badge as well as a Star Piece. Other objects there suggest someone lives there, but they are never present.

Rogueport Plaza is the market of Rogueport, with the gallows in the center. The plaza is home to the Toad Bros. Bazaar, an item shop, as well as Podley's Place, a soda bar with an inn upstairs. The Lovely Howz of Badges, a badge shop, is entered from a raised walkway that can be accessed from the inn. Next to this shop, there is a rooftop where Ms. Mowz can optionally join Mario’s party after Chapter 4. To the right of the entrance to Podley's Place, there is a raised platform supporting a large treasure chest that contains the Ultra Hammer, which can be knocked down with a Spring Jump once Mario has the Ultra Boots.
Zess T.’s kitchen is located on the west end of the plaza. Next to this building, there is a bulletin board that is updated with news periodically throughout the story. The backside features graffiti written on it, which also changes periodically. Starting midway through Chapter 1, Charlieton can be found in the streets selling his wares.
The plaza separates the west side controlled by Don Pianta and the east side ruled by Ishnail. Neither of the opposing parties seem to have a total control over the marketplace. At the very beginning of the game, as Goombella starts to tell Mario what is going on and Toadsworth is telling Mario the whereabouts of Peach, two members of the Pianta syndicate can be seen ambushing and threatening two Robbo members in front of Podley's Place. Several criminals reside behind the main buildings, through an archway. A Bandit resides in a house behind Podley's Place; this is the same Bandit that robs Mario at the beginning of the game. If spoken to, he will give Mario his stolen coins back. McGoomba also resides in this area. The plaza in its majority is Doogans, Toads, Goombas, and Little Mousers.

The East Side of Rogueport, also called Ishnail’s Turf by its inhabitants, is an insecure and run-down place controlled by the Robbo Thieves, led by Ishnail. Bandits roam the streets, and when Mario first enters the area, he immediately gets robbed half his coins. This part of town is dirty and the houses are in bad shape. Nevertheless, this area is home to Merlon and Professor Frankly. The pipe to the Rogueport Underground is just outside Professor Frankly's house, initially blocked by a rotten piece of fence that is removed by Frankly after Mario initially meets with him. The furthest east part of the east side is guarded by Gus. Mario has to pay him or fight him in order to pass. In that area, there is the Trouble Center and Admiral Bobbery's house. Garf’s house is the furthest-east building accessible, and can be entered after completing his trouble. Next to the door, there is a stack of crates that can only be reached using Yoshi Kid’s Flutter Jump. This leads to the rooftops, where Bobbery’s chimney, which can be entered using Tube Mode, is located, as well as the storyteller Grifty.
This area also contains a number of hidden areas. On the west end, there is a back alley that can be accessed through a group of three brick walls that appear to be a single one due to a perspective trick. Darkly resides here due to it apparently being the darkest part of Rogueport; it reminds him of his home in Twilight Town. Between Bobbery’s house and the Trouble Center, there is a narrow crack that can be entered using Paper Mode to reach the back side of the Trouble Center and the Robbo Thieves’ hideout, where Ishnail resides. The back entrance to the Trouble Center, from which Goose manages the establishment, can be revealed using Flurrie’s ability. There is also a Boat Mode panel here, which allows Mario to reach a Double Dip badge located on a ledge below the Trouble Center entrance.

The West Side is a relatively clean and secure area of Rogueport controlled by the Pianta Syndicate. It is initially inaccessible to Mario due to Zess T. blocking it after Mario breaks her Contact Lens; once a replacement Contact Lens is delivered to her from the Toad Bros. Bazaar, which can be done as early as midway through Chapter 1, she moves out of the way, allowing Mario to enter.
This area is much cleaner than the East Side, and there is a fountain as well as a small park. Lucky, who manages the Happy Lucky Lottery, is found in the southwestern area. In the center of the street, there is a sewer grate which Mario can enter using Paper Mode to reach the western part of Rogueport Underground. The park area features a tall pipe that acts as the exit to the western part of the sewers, and is too tall to enter from outside.
The Pianta Syndicate runs the Pianta Parlor and the Westside Goods item shop in the area. After buying a Dried Mushroom and Dizzy Dial in that order at Westside Goods and answering the shopkeeper Peeka’s question about Mario’s favorite color, with “yellow” (a password that Mario can learn from Ishnail), Mario is granted access to the Pianta syndicate’s headquarters through a back staircase, where Don Pianta resides for most of the game. Next to Westside Goods, there is a cracked wall that can be destroyed by Bobbery, leading to a small back alley containing a Shine Sprite.
There are also two residential houses in the eastern area. One of them contains a small hole that can be entered with Tube Mode, leading to a back alley with a Shine Sprite. By using Tube Mode again to exit this area through another small hole, Mario is deposited in the other residential house through a dresser drawer.

Rogueport Station is the center of transportation in Rogueport, located north of the west side. It contains both the port for the Cheep Blimp as well as the Excess Express’ station. Mario must acquire tickets for each of these modes of transport to access Glitzville and Poshley Heights, respectively.

The majority of the population is considered to be thieving and notorious, fitting the city's name. This is more true in the East Side. Toads, Bob-ombs, Goombas, Doogans, Craws, Piantas, and Bandits make up the majority of the population, though there are also Boos, Little Mousers, Ratooeys, and Lakitus in few numbers. 

The below items are acquired while exploring Rogueport. Other items not listed below can be purchased from various vendors in town.

Goombella has a demonstration tattle only when she joins Mario's party.