The Roller tires are a set of tires in the Mario Kart series.

The Roller tires debut in Mario Kart 7, available by default. They are the smallest tires in the game, and they offer the best acceleration and handling boosts among all the kart parts. However, they are also the slowest and lightest tires in the game, as well as having very low off-road. Despite these flaws, the Roller tires strongly excel while underwater however, and their air stats are given a positive boost as well. They are also very stable compared to most other tires.

The Roller tires reappear in Mario Kart 8 and Mario Kart 8 Deluxe. Although they are still the smallest tires, they are red with a yellow center, instead of black with a silver center, like in Mario Kart 7. The Roller tires are still available to use right off the bat, but despite this, CPUs will never use them.
Much like in Mario Kart 7, the Roller tires offer the highest acceleration boost of all tires, but their handling boost is much less extreme than before. They don't hinder speed and weight as heavily as in Mario Kart 7, despite still being the slowest and lightest tires in the game. In terms of their hidden stats, the Roller tires have the highest stat total of all the tires in the game.
A variant of the Roller tires called the Azure Roller tires also appear in Mario Kart 8 and Mario Kart 8 Deluxe, where they share the same stats as the Roller tires. The Button and Leaf Tires also share the Roller tires' stats, despite having a different appearance.
In Mario Kart 8 Deluxe, the Roller tires have received slightly different stats which they now exclusively share with the Azure Roller tires. They no longer boost air speed, and their acceleration and Mini-Turbo stats are slightly lower as well. The only two CPU-controlled characters who use these tires are Ludwig and Baby Luigi. Ludwig uses these tires alongside the Biddybuggy, while Baby Luigi uses them alongside the Mr. Scooty.

The Roller tires return in Mario Kart Tour used by the Birthday Girl, Birthday Girl Rosalina, Bullet Blaster, Bulls-Eye Banzai, Egg 1, Jumbo Jetter, Ribbon Rider, Hot Pot Hot Rod, and the Wild Wiggler. The former six karts are equipped with Rollers in their Mario Kart 7 appearance, but with a yellow center like in Mario Kart 8. On the Ribbon Rider, Hot Pot Hot Rod, and Wild Wiggler, the Rollers have a similar design to their Mario Kart 8 and Mario Kart 8 Deluxe appearances. Golden versions of the Mario Kart 7 tires appear on the Gold Egg.

Stat values are out of 6.