Rosalina is a recurring character who first appears in Super Mario Galaxy. Her duty is to watch over and protect the cosmos, while also serving as the adopted mother of the Lumas and commanding the Comet Observatory.
Rosalina's backstory is chronicled in her storybook told by her in the Comet Observatory's Library in Super Mario Galaxy. Nine chapters are unlocked throughout the game, and the last is unlocked by completing the game.

Rosalina's story begins when she meets a young Luma in a rusted spaceship, where they rebuild the spaceship to go search for the Luma's mother. They traverse through space, encountering comets, asteroids, and Star Bits. Rosalina then starts to miss her own mother, but the two begin to build a new home that would eventually become the Comet Observatory. As she and the Luma build the home, Rosalina takes more Lumas under her wing. After they see their 100th comet, Rosalina looks back at her home planet, which causes her to feel greatly upset and homesick. With the help of the Lumas, she then comes to terms with the fact that her own mother is dead. The young Luma who traveled with Rosalina tells her that her mother will always be a part of her, and then transforms into a comet that can traverse to Rosalina's home planet. Rosalina then declares that the Lumas are her family now, and decides that she will visit her home planet once every 100 years.

Rosalina is a major character in Super Mario Galaxy. During one of her centennial visits to the Mushroom Kingdom, the Comet Observatory is attacked by Bowser, who steals the observatory's Power Stars and Grand Stars. Rosalina later appeared to Mario/Luigi after Peach is kidnapped. In order to aid Mario/Luigi she gives him Luma, the same one seen with Peach at the Star Festival. Once Mario/Luigi collects the first Grand Star, she explains to him that Bowser stole the Power Stars and requests that he help get them back. As more Power Stars are returned, she appears in the library, where she reads her storybook to Mario/Luigi and some Lumas. After Mario/Luigi collects enough stars to power the ship, Rosalina flies the observatory to the center of the universe for the final confrontation with Bowser. After the Lumas sacrifice themselves to stop the giant black hole created by Bowser's sun, Rosalina appears to Mario/Luigi and explains the "cycle of life" to him before he awakens at Peach's Castle. If the player collects all 120 Power Stars, Rosalina thanks the player, and tells them that she watches over them from beyond the stars. She then proceeds to transform the Comet Observatory into a comet, and shoots off into the stars.

Rosalina appears during the ending sequence of Super Mario Galaxy 2. Lubba reveals at this time that he and Rosalina had met before, but the details of their meeting remain unknown. Rosalina also frequently sends letters to the Baby Luma that travels with Mario, but she does not reveal her identity in them. When the player manages to get 120 Power Stars and defeats the final boss again, a scene is shown after the ending credits, showing Rosalina and her Lumas in the Library, revealing that she was telling the story of Super Mario Galaxy 2. Then, she decides to narrate how Mario (and Luigi) collect every Green Star to her Lumas. If Mario, Yoshi, and Luigi manage to collect every single star in the game, and survive the Grandmaster Galaxy's Daredevil Comet, Rosalina thanks them and joins them on Starship Mario.
Players can also use Rosalina's head to represent their file on the file select screen. However, the Rosalina head can only be used on save files in which the player has collected 120 stars, and unlocked the Green Star Prankster Comets.
This game also features a cosmic entity that highly resembles Rosalina, known as the Cosmic Spirit.

Rosalina appears as a unlockable playable character in Super Mario 3D World and its Nintendo Switch port Super Mario 3D World + Bowser's Fury. She is unlocked after the player has completed World Star-2: Super Galaxy. This is also the first game where she is voiced by Laura Faye Smith. She has the ability to use the Spin attack, similar to that of Mario and Luigi in the Super Mario Galaxy games, has a very high jump, and has normal traction. She is, however, slower like Princess Peach. This is also the first time Rosalina is playable in a Super Mario platformer. As with the other characters, she can use all the power-ups in the game, but when she gets one (except the Double Cherry and the Super Star), her Spin attack is replaced with the attack used by that power-up.
If the player completes The Great Tower of Bowser Land after Rosalina has been unlocked, she is then seen with two Lumas in the end credits, at the end of the first split of the Clear Pipe, replacing three Sprixie denizens. Additionally, Rosalina's Comet Observatory can be seen in the background of the game's expanded key artwork, the final scene after the credits, and World Star-2: Super Galaxy.
Although Rosalina is usually associated with the color cyan, according to the game's director Kenta Motakura, Rosalina's Cat Suit is black as a request from producer Yoshiaki Koizumi.

Rosalina appears as an unlockable Mystery Mushroom transformation by clearing the 100 Mario challenge on normal or harder or by scanning a Rosalina amiibo figure. Here, she is given an 8-bit appearance based on her Super Smash Bros. look, with a Luma floating alongside her. When Mario transforms into Rosalina, the Super Mario Galaxy sound effect for collecting a power-up plays while she says, "Here I go!". Rosalina also uses her voice clips from Super Mario 3D World, while her course clear music uses the "You Got a Star!" BGM from Super Mario Galaxy 2. If the player loses a life while wearing the Rosalina costume, the "Too Bad!" BGM from Super Mario Galaxy is played.

In Super Mario Odyssey, Rosalina makes a cameo as an 8-bit sprite that can be found on a vegetable on the Dark Side of the Moon and a wall on the Darker Side of the Moon. When interacted with, the 8-bit Rosalina spins and the player is given ten coins.
Aside from this, while she herself does not appear in the game, concept art revealed that she was planned to appear as a street musician playing an acoustic guitar.

Although she does not appear physically in Super Mario Maker 2, it is strongly implied Rosalina is Stargazer in the game's story mode, due to her courses taking place in the sky theme during night, which features light gravity, and they allude to both Super Mario Galaxy games. Additionally, her course descriptions involve her pleading to the player to either defeat a major enemy near a planet or use their knowledge of a course part to complete that course. The Rosalina Wig and Rosalina Dress also appear as unlockable outfit parts that can be worn by Miis, both unlocked by clearing 3000 courses.

Rosalina's first appearance as a playable character, as well as her debut in Super Mario spin-off installments overall, is in Mario Kart Wii, where she is an unlockable character. She can be unlocked by winning first place with at least a 1 Star Rank in all Mirror Grand Prix Cups, having a Super Mario Galaxy save file and playing 50 races, or playing 4,950 races. Rosalina rides in Large vehicles, and is the first female character to ever be in this class due to her tall height.
In Mario Kart Wii, a Luma orbits around Rosalina and occasionally squeals or giggles when the player performs an aerial trick. Rosalina's emblem is a Grand Star, which would be retained in future games. Like Peach and Daisy, Rosalina appears in a biker suit while racing on any of the bikes, only that the color scheme is different to the overall color scheme of her main dress. Her signature bike is the Shooting Star and her signature kart is the Honeycoupe. Rosalina in the Jetsetter is the staff ghost for Rainbow Road. Statwise, Rosalina offers moderate boosts to speed, handling and Mini-Turbo, making her a good fit on the Jetsetter and the Wario Bike.
Along with Dry Bowser, Rosalina is one of two playable characters in this game to not reappear in Mario Super Sluggers. Additionally, she is the only character whose voice echoes even more when they activate a Star, as her voice naturally echoes in this game.

Rosalina returns in her second Mario Kart game appearance in Mario Kart 7 for the Nintendo 3DS. This is the first time that Rosalina appears on a handheld game. She is a Cruiser-type character, along with Donkey Kong and Wiggler, and this time, she appears without a Luma accompanying her in the races. Rosalina has an advantage bonus in weight and speed. Just as in Mario Kart Wii, Rosalina is an unlockable character, which the player must win the Star Cup at 150cc to unlock. In this game, she has her own track, Rosalina's Ice World (which appears as the second course in the Special Cup), which makes allusion to the Super Mario Galaxy series, where she has appeared prominently. When Rosalina uses the Peach Parasol for a glider, it becomes turquoise to match her color scheme. Likewise, her Birthday Girl kart is colored blue.

Rosalina appears in Mario Kart Arcade GP DX, following an update to the game. She is classified as a heavyweight character, meaning she has exceptional speed, but poor acceleration and handling.

Rosalina returns as an unlockable playable racer in Mario Kart 8. She retains her bike gear from Mario Kart Wii when riding a bike or an ATV, and her signature dress for karts. In addition, her infant counterpart makes her debut in this installment. Much like in Mario Kart 7, her Peach Parasol glider is turquoise.
In the Wii U version, Rosalina is one of the lighter heavyweights, sacrificing some speed and weight to boost her acceleration, handling, and traction stats a little. She shares these traits with Donkey Kong, Waluigi, Roy, and Link. Rosalina in the Circuit Special with standard tires and Super Glider is the staff ghost for Sunshine Airport.
Rosalina reappears in the Nintendo Switch port Mario Kart 8 Deluxe. This time, she is available from the start. She is once again a heavyweight character, though among the lightest heavyweights, sharing statistics with King Boo, Link, and Pauline. She has the lowest top speed and weight of all the heavyweights, while still sharing similar acceleration as other heavy groups. However, her handling is amongst the best of the heavyweights. She also has the strongest mini-turbo boost of the heavyweights. Finally, her traction statistic is noticeably strong, being far and away the best in her weight class. Her course 3DS Rosalina's Ice World reappears in the Mario Kart 8 Deluxe – Booster Course Pass as the second course of the Spiny Cup.

Rosalina reappears as a playable character in Mario Kart Tour since the Tokyo Tour. A Super driver, her special skill is the Dash Ring. In the pre-release beta test, however, Rosalina was a Super Rare (former name of High-End) driver whose special skill was the Boomerang Flower; additionally, in said beta test, she was a week 2 spotlight.
Rosalina wearing a witch outfit, referred to as Rosalina (Halloween), also appears. She debuted as the first High-End spotlight driver for the Halloween Tour. Like her normal counterpart, she has the Dash Ring as her special skill.
Another version of Rosalina wearing a dress patterned after the aurora borealis (northern lights), referred to as Rosalina (Aurora), debuted as the first High-End spotlight driver for the Vancouver Tour. Her special skill is the Ice Flower.
A third variant of Rosalina wearing a teal swimdress, referred to as Rosalina (Swimwear), debuted as the first High-End spotlight driver for the Marine Tour. Her special skill is the Coin Box.
A fourth variant of Rosalina, in her Fire Rosalina form, debuted as the first High-End spotlight driver for the Rosalina Tour, which is themed around her. In that tour, 3DS Rosalina's Ice World also returns. Her special skill is the Fire Flower, and her emblem is a Grand Star in a red background.
A fifth variant of Rosalina, in her Tanooki Rosalina form, debuted in the 2021 Autumn Tour's Big Ears Pipe. Her special skill is the Super Leaf.
Cat Rosalina debuted in the New Year's 2022 Tour, alongside Meowser, and was the second week's spotlight driver. Her special skill is the Super Bell.
A seventh variant of Rosalina, Rosalina (Volendam), debuted in the Amsterdam Tour as the first pipe's spotlight driver. Her special skill is the Boomerang Flower.
An eighth variant of Rosalina in a chef outfit, Rosalina (Chef), debuted in the Metropolitan Tour as one of the first pipe's spotlight drivers. Her special skill is the Giant Banana.

Rosalina appears in volume 38 of Super Mario-kun. After Bowser uses a flyswatter to knock Mario away to a planet, Mario loses his motivation, despite Luma's efforts to get him back. Rosalina sends a hologram of a Giant Goomba for Mario, thus making him use his Star Spin technique to make it disappear (much to Mario's surprise). She later helps him on the adventure.

Rosalina appears on the Puzzle Swap panel "Nintendo Starlets" of the StreetPass Mii Plaza, alongside Princess Peach, Pauline, Zelda, and Toon Zelda.

Rosalina makes her first appearance in the Mario Party series in Mario Party: Island Tour. She is a non-playable character on the space themed board, Rocket Road, where she waits at the end of the board for the winner, and also appears in the celebration for a victory on this board.

Rosalina appears as a playable character in Mario Party 10; her first playable appearance in the series. She has her own amiibo board, the Rosalina Board, where it is unlocked if the player places a Rosalina amiibo figure on the GamePad. Her board is based upon the space themes in Super Mario Galaxy and Super Mario Galaxy 2. On a side note, Mario Party 10 is the first Super Mario title to have Rosalina as a starting character.

Rosalina returns in Mario Party: Star Rush, as an unlockable playable character. She can be unlocked by either earning enough party points to reach level 6 or by scanning in a Rosalina amiibo figure. In Toad Scramble, she can be recruited by players and has the ability to mysteriously crush glowing rocks. Her dice block is the Wondrous Dice Block, which can roll a 5, 6, or the rank that the player is currently in (1st, 2nd, 3rd, or 4th).

Rosalina returns in the minigame compilation title Mario Party: The Top 100 as a playable character, and like the rest of the playable cast, she is available from the start.

Rosalina returns as a playable character in Super Mario Party, where she is available from the start. Every playable character in this game has a unique Dice Block; in Rosalina's case, it is colored light blue and two of its faces each give her two coins (without moving), while the other faces display a 2, 3, 4, and 8 respectively.

Rosalina returns as a playable character in Mario Party Superstars, once again being available from the start.

Rosalina returns as a playable character in Super Mario Party Jamboree.

Rosalina makes her first appearance in a Mario Golf game as a downloadable character in Mario Golf: World Tour as a part of the Star Pack. Unlike Peach and Daisy, Rosalina does not have a change in outfit for this game. She is one of the strongest characters, losing only to Bowser in distance. She also has a fade, meaning that her ball curves to the right. She has the highest shot in the game, which means that she can easily hit over trees, but the ball is affected by wind more. Unlike the other characters, she does not hold her club; she magically levitates it and controls it with her wand.

Rosalina returns as a playable character in Mario Golf: Super Rush, this time available in the base game and sporting a golf outfit. She is an All-Around Type, boasting high stamina and power, but with middling control and poor spin. Her Special Shot is the Shooting Star, and her Special Dash is the Luma Dash.

Rosalina was announced to be the fourth newcomer fighter in Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS and Super Smash Bros. for Wii U during the December 2013 Nintendo Direct, alongside Luma. A variety of her abilities use a Luma, particularly to aid in combos.
Although Rosalina is the tallest female fighter in the game (the third tallest overall when compared to Bowser and Ganondorf), she is a lightweight fighter, as opposed to the Super Mario games, where she is a heavyweight. In fact, Rosalina is one of the lightest fighters in the game, only being heavier than Mr. Game & Watch, Mewtwo, and Jigglypuff. Along with being lightweight, Rosalina also has a very high air acceleration attribute, along with a very low falling speed attribute, only falling faster than Peach and Jigglypuff. However, despite her strong air mobility, Rosalina's air speed is only around average.
For Equipment, Rosalina uses Staffs to boost attack, Dresses for defense, and Pumps (Heels) for speed.
Rosalina and Luma have a moveset largely inspired by the Super Mario Galaxy games. They can be controlled individually, similar to the Ice Climbers from past Super Smash Bros. installments. Luma can be attacked and defeated, and can eventually be re-summoned by Rosalina. However, like attacking Nana and Olimar's Pikmin, the damage does not count towards Rosalina's damage percentage, though Luma has its own individual but unseen damage counter. Rosalina can also control how far away the Luma can be from her, by using her standard special attack; the Luma Shot.
Her down special move is named Gravitational Pull, which sends items and weapons towards Rosalina. While she uses this move, any energy-based projectiles that hit Rosalina will be disabled. The attack seems to be inspired by the Spin from Super Mario Galaxy and Super Mario Galaxy 2. Her up special attack; the Launch Star, gives Rosalina a vertical boost (with an animation similar to Mario's and Luigi's animation after using a Launch Star in the Super Mario Galaxy games, even including the Launch Star sound effect). Her side special, Star Bits, releases a group of Star Bits that are used as projectiles. Rosalina's Final Smash, Power Star, summons a large Power Star, which shoots many smaller stars onto the stage that damage opponents.
The partner Luma can be yellow, apricot, green, red, blue, or Polari. The differences are aesthetic only.
Rosalina largely retains her appearance from the Super Mario franchise, with the exception of glittery star patterns, made with an iridescent fiber, adorning the bottom of her dress. 
Rosalina's dress comes in eight colors for players to choose from: the default turquoise, mint green, pink, gold, black and gold, purple, and two red and white colored dresses, one of which resembles her Fire form in Super Mario 3D World, while the other is inversed and resembles White Mage's appearance in Mario Hoops 3-on-3 and Mario Sports Mix.
The Nintendo 3DS version was also the first game where Rosalina is a playable default character. Up until Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS, her other playable appearances required her to be unlocked first.
Rosalina does not share a victory theme with the other Super Mario characters, instead using a short arrangement of "Overture" from Super Mario Galaxy. In this game, Rosalina is the only character who is neither a villain nor an anti-hero with this trait; however, in the next installment, this trait is now shared with Lucina, Robin, Chrom, Corrin, and Byleth.

Rosalina and Luma return as playable unlockable fighters in Super Smash Bros. Ultimate. Rosalina is heavier and faster, and her shield now covers Luma as well. Luma also has more health and respawns faster. However, Luma now panics when Rosalina takes damage, preventing it from acting. Rosalina's Final Smash is now a Grand Star, but otherwise functions the same as in the previous game. Rosalina is also slightly heavier, now being heavier than Bayonetta, but lighter than Zelda and Sora, while having the same weight as Falco.
In the opening cutscene to "World of Light", Rosalina and Luma attempt to fly away from Galeem's beams of light alongside Diddy Kong, but are ultimately consumed and used to create puppet fighters. They are among the fighters brought under Dharkon's control after Galeem's first defeat, and are recruited near the Mysterious Dimension sub-world.
Rosalina's Classic Mode route has her battle space-faring opponents. As an allusion to Super Mario Galaxy and Super Mario Galaxy 2, she fights alongside Mario against Bowser, and later on, Marx. Rosalina engages in these battles in the following order:

Olimar on Distant Planet
A free-for-all between Fox and Wolf on Venom
Samus on Brinstar
Ridley on Brinstar Depths
Kirby ×6 on Dream Land
A team battle between Rosalina and Mario against Bowser on Mario Galaxy
Final boss against Marx

In Captain Toad: Treasure Tracker and its Nintendo Switch and Nintendo 3DS ports, three hidden Rosalina sprites appear, one on a book in Spinwheel Library and the other two walking across the backgrounds in Double Cherry Spires and Beep Block Sky Plaza. During development, it was suggested that the game be a story read by Rosalina, meaning that she may have appeared in person during the ending, but it was ultimately decided to have the ending be the start of Super Mario 3D World.

Rosalina appears as a helper character in Puzzle & Dragons: Super Mario Bros. Edition. She is unlocked by completing ★World 2-Tower, and is a Water attribute helper. She also has a Super form, which is unlocked by completing ★World 5, and is a Water/Light attribute helper.
Rosalina's Skill allows players to freely move Orbs anywhere for 10 seconds, while her Helper Skill multiplies the ATK of all teammates by 3.5x when attacking with four or more attributes.
Super Rosalina's Skill turns all Orbs into Fire, Water, Wood, Light, and Dark Orbs, while her Helper Skill multiplies the ATK of all teammates by 5.5x when attacking with five attributes.
Both Rosalina variations have RCV as their strongest stat, while their ATK is only at average levels. And while Rosalina's HP is at an average level, Super Rosalina's HP is slightly above average.

Rosalina appears as a playable character in Mario Tennis: Ultra Smash. This is the first installment in the Super Mario franchise overall in which Rosalina makes a debut wearing a specialized sports outfit, which consists of a minidress based on the colors of her usual gown in cyan. In addition, she wears teal shoes and white tights. Also, she is the only one of the three newcomers to be available from the start. She also levitates while moving around, with a small dust of sparkles coming from her feet, and even sometimes her racket. Additionally, she levitates the ball instead of holding it.
When Rosalina obtains a Mega Mushroom, she spins in the air, and points her racket to the camera. Rosalina is a Power-type character, meaning that her hits are fast and strong, and is the first female character in the Super Mario sports titles to have this type.

Rosalina reappears as a playable character in Mario Tennis Aces. Unlike Mario Tennis: Ultra Smash, Rosalina is classified as a Tricky character. In addition, her footwear is replaced by a set of hard cross trainer shoes in cyan color with sapphire blue stars engraved on the sides. Her Trick Shots are known as the Galaxy Warp and Satellite Shift, and her Special Shot is referred to as the Star Combo. She also appeared in the game's online tournament demo as an unlockable playable character, unlocked after 1,000 points were accumulated.

In Mario & Luigi: Paper Jam, Rosalina makes a cameo on a Character Card obtained from the Peach amiibo.

In the Super Mario Mash-up of Minecraft, Rosalina appears as a playable skin.

Rosalina makes her first playable appearance, as well as her first appearance in general, in the Mario & Sonic series, in Mario & Sonic at the Rio 2016 Olympic Games. In both the Nintendo 3DS and Wii U versions of the game, she is an unlockable character and is only playable in the Rhythmic Gymnastics event; because of this, she is only seen wearing a leotard as her primary outfit in the game.
This is the only game where she does not wear nail polish, in reference to how rhythmic gymnasts are discouraged from wearing nail polish for distracting the judges.

Rosalina reappears in Mario & Sonic at the Olympic Games Tokyo 2020 as an unlockable guest character, being playable exclusively in the Surfing - Shortboard event. Like Peach, Tails, Dr. Eggman, Waluigi, and Silver, she is described as "Good at Tube Riding."
In story mode, Rosalina appears in Chapter 17. After Luigi and Tails's group receive Entry Pass K from Blaze, which allows them to enter Tsurigasaki Surfing Beach, they find Rosalina at the beach. By this point, Rosalina had become aware of the group's attempts to charge the Excitement Battery in order to rescue Mario and Sonic, who are trapped in the Tokyo '64 game system along with Toad, Bowser, and Dr. Eggman. In order to help charge the battery, which is powered by spectators' excitement, Rosalina offers to challenge the group to a Surfing match. Donkey Kong accepts this challenge and defeats Rosalina, causing the battery to fully charge. Rosalina is also unlocked as a playable character upon her defeat. After Chapter 17, Rosalina remains at Tsurigasaki Surfing Beach, open to rematches.

Rosalina appears as a starting captain-type character in Mario Sports Superstars. In most sports she is classified as a Power type. In the tennis mode of the game, she retains her animations from Mario Tennis: Ultra Smash, though unlike that game she is now classified as a Tricky character. In golf, her default drive is 226 yards, and her shots travel very high in a fade trajectory. Unlike Peach and Daisy, she wears her tennis dress for all sports excluding golf, where she wears her usual gown instead. Additionally, in this game, Kerri Kane's voice clips are reused alongside those of Laura Faye Smith.

Rosalina is a playable character in Monopoly Gamer. She is sold separately as a "Power Pack" expansion figure.

Rosalina makes her debut in the Dr. Mario series as an unlockable playable doctor in Dr. Mario World, having the doctor name Dr. Rosalina. She was added around October 2019 along with Dr. Luma. Her stage mode skill makes capsules in Stage Mode move again for fifteen seconds (seven prior to version 1.4.0), and is represented by her waving the wand to make capsules translucent. While the capsules are translucent, they can be moved left, right or up, but they cannot move down. Moreover, while this effect is active, any object that reacts to capsules landing will not activate, such as barriers (they won't toggle on or off) and flasks (they will not fill up). The skill meter can also fill up when this effect is active mainly through eliminating objects, as just activating it will empty it, potentially allowing the effect's timer to be reset. In versus mode, her skill is different, in which it changes the form the viruses on the opponent's play field so that they are hidden by one type of the following: ice, bubbles, Brick Blocks, dust clouds, or clouds. The amount of viruses affected by this skill differs by level, where it is up to 2, 4, 6, 8, and 10 viruses respectively from level 1 to 5.

Rosalina makes her Mario Strikers debut in Mario Strikers: Battle League as a playable character. She is an Offensive type, and as such she has strong shooting and strength statistics, with average technique and below average speed and passing. Her team number is 11, and her Hyper Strike is Orbital Burst.

Prior to the events of Mario + Rabbids Sparks of Hope, several Rabbids arrive on the Comet Observatory and befriend the Lumas there. However, Cursa soon arrives, and Rosalina flings the Rabbids and Lumas away to safety, eventually merging them together to create Sparks. Rosalina is overwhelmed by Cursa and absorbed into it, although at times Rosalina attempted to break free of Cursa's control. In order to get rid of Rosalina for good, Cursa plotted to absorb the Sparks. Mario and the team of heroes later meet one of the Sparks, and go in search of Rosalina. Along the way, a Rabbid with Rosalina's likeliness known as Rabbid Rosalina joins the heroes, who is also looking for Rosalina.
After the heroes defeat Daphne, Cursa confronts the heroes itself, although Rosalina manages to briefly break free from Cursa and open a portal to allow the heroes to escape, before being absorbed again. During the final battle against Cursa, the heroes manage to weaken Cursa enough to allow Rosalina to break free for good, although Cursa evolves into another form. Rosalina aids the heroes in battle by absorbing their attacks to power herself up, then attacks Cursa with powerful energy beams. While Mario and the gang shoot their weapons to obliterate Cursa, she uses her wand to form a giant arrow that disintegrates her.
Following Cursa's defeat, Rosalina returns to Peach's Castle with the heroes where she thanks them for saving her and the galaxy. She offers to take Edge and Rabbid Rosalina with her on the Comet Observatory, but they both opt to stay with Mario's group.
According to creative director Davide Soliani, Rosalina was considered to be a playable character, but she was ultimately dropped due to her being "super tall" (which would have made a problem with gameplay, specifically with fitting her behind cover) and "too powerful" in the Super Mario Galaxy games.

In Animal Crossing: New Horizons, interacting with the red variant of the tulip surprise box results in a doll resembling Rosalina popping out.

Rosalina appears as a tall, youthful woman who bears a resemblance to Princess Peach, especially regarding her body type and facial features. However, when compared to Peach, Rosalina's eyes are a lighter shade of blue, her lips are lighter-colored, and her hair is a lighter blonde color. Rosalina's storybook implies she could have had red or strawberry blonde hair as a young girl, despite Baby Rosalina's hair being platinum blonde like her adult counterpart. She also has a long bang that covers most of the right side of her face. Rosalina appears taller than most human characters, only surpassed by Waluigi, but she can also become much larger, as evidenced by the ending to Super Mario Galaxy, where Mario is shown to be roughly the size of her hand.
Rosalina wears an aqua, floor-length dress that bares her shoulders, and it has long flared sleeves topped with powder-blue frills. The bottom of the dress has a light blue flap on the hem and turns up at a point in the middle, showing a layer of petticoat underneath. She has a star-shaped brooch with a gold gem in the middle, a silver crown enlaid with pink and blue gems, golden star-shaped earrings and silver high heels. She also wears purple nail polish. In most of her appearances, Rosalina carries a thin silver wand with a hollow golden star at the top, which is called the Star Wand.
Rosalina is usually depicted as right-handed in artwork, but left-handed in-game, with a few exceptions: in Mario Golf: World Tour, Mario Sports Superstars, Mario Tennis Aces, and Mario Golf: Super Rush, the player can choose if Rosalina is left- or right-handed, and Rosalina holds her wand with her right hand during cutscenes in Super Mario Galaxy. However, in the Mario Party series, Rosalina has been depicted as left-handed in artwork, but right-handed when she participates in an activity or minigame. In Mario Tennis: Ultra Smash, Rosalina is depicted as right-handed in both her artwork and in-game, while she is depicted as left-handed on the box art for Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS.

In the Super Smash Bros. series, the lower portion of her dress features glittery star markings similar to the end of her wand. The underside of the dress has a blue deep space pattern. In Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS and Super Smash Bros. for Wii U, her heels are the color of her dress, rather than the usual silver. In Super Smash Bros. Ultimate, her dress is slightly closer to its appearance in the Super Mario games, and her heels are silver across all palettes.
In Mario Kart Wii, Mario Kart 8, and Mario Kart 8 Deluxe, Rosalina wears a white jumpsuit with cyan stripes when riding motorbikes, as well as ATVs in the latter two titles. This outfit is styled after Peach's and Daisy's outfits when wearing bikes. Along with the jumpsuit, she also wears a matching turquoise scarf, belt, boots, and gloves. She retains her regular crown, earrings and brooch.
In Mario Tennis: Ultra Smash, Rosalina wears a sleeveless minidress that matches the same color as her typical gown to meet the requirements of the sports criteria. The dress is her typical cyan color but has a frilled hem and collar, and no longer cuts off at the top of her chest. She retains her brooch, crown and earrings. She wears teal sports shoes, and her legs are covered in white tights, though the tights are shown to be burnt gray in Mario Sports Superstars.
In Mario & Sonic at the Rio 2016 Olympic Games, Rosalina wears a leotard in the Rhythmic Gymnastics event. Her leotard is a greener shade of regular teal color, and has long sleeves with a pale trim. The bottom of the leotard has a paler strip of fabric attached, which resembles the hem of her typical gown, and a loose collar in a similar style. The leotard also has darker turquoise stripes down the sides, and she still retains her signature crown, earrings, and brooch.
In Mario Kart Tour, Rosalina introduces some alternate forms, all being high-end drivers. Her Halloween form features a purple witch's dress with her usual star brooch, a purple witch's hat with a cyan stripe and a small pumpkin on it, platinum gray heels, and black tights. Her Aurora form features a sleeveless, frilled dress colored in a blue-to-purple gradient, resembling the aurora borealis. It has a white collar, and just below that it is patterned with stars resembling her earrings. She retains her usual star brooch and wears opera gloves matching the color of her dress. Her hair bang is adorned with blue crystals and she is also equipped with silver tights and heels. Her Swimwear form features a turquoise swimdress adorned with Grand Stars, along with a yellow frangipani flower in her hair. She also wears teal wristbands on her arms, and, while she is barefooted in this variant, she has a turquoise bead bracelet around her left ankle. Her Volendam form features a black overdress with a white and blue belt, red collar with her star brooch, white underskirt with cyan/yellow/blue horizontal stripes, hat with flower patterns on it, and yellow heels. She also carries a watering can and bouquet. Her Chef form features a white chef's outfit with a flat hat top and blue linings. Her Chef outfit also includes a blue/cyan striped skirt, dark gray leggings, and white boots with blue linings. All eight variants retain her star earrings, while the Aurora variant also retains her crown.
In Super Mario 3D World, Rosalina's dress turns red when she picks up a Fire Flower, and her hair is converted into a ponytail with a red hairband, matching Peach's transformation.
Mario & Sonic at the Olympic Games Tokyo 2020 introduces yet another outfit that is used in the Shortboard Surfing event, consisting of a black wetsuit with thin gray accents and a teal panel on the front torso, containing her usual star-shaped brooch. The outfit once again incorporates her usual upturned turquoise collar.
In a piece of Super Mario Odyssey concept artMedia:TAoSMO Rosalina Concept Art.jpg, she is seen wearing blue jeans and a black, short-sleeved shirt which slightly exposes her abdomen. In this artwork, she has a black bracelet on her left wrist and does not wear a crown.
Mario Golf: Super Rush introduces another outfit, consisting of a cyan-colored golf dress with a smaller brooch that fades to white near the frilled bottom, with short sleeves and a white polo collar. Her crown and earrings remain the same, but she gains white sneakers with turquoise laces, and white tights covering her legs.
In Mario Strikers: Battle League, she wears a short sleeve jersey and shorts along with knee-length socks and cleats that can be customized with or without armor. Unlike the other playable characters, she wears an underpiece consisting of what seems to be a light blue unitard.

Although Rosalina's design has not been changed since her debut, aside from her dress having a glittery star pattern in the Super Smash Bros. series, her concept design was vastly different when she was originally being created for Super Mario Galaxy. She was depicted with a beehive hairstyle along with straight-cut bangs. She had more unique facial features including the style of her eyes and mouth; the facial features she has now are more similar to Peach's. Her outfit was also somewhat closer to Peach and Daisy's. Instead of a crown, she wore a tiara, and her gloves were just like Peach's. A final concept drawing depicted Rosalina very similarly to the way in which she appears now, though it contained minor color differences, mainly with her hair.
The Super Mario Galaxy development team considered making Rosalina a relative of Princess Peach; while this was dropped from the final game, her overall character design still reflects this early idea.

In Super Mario Galaxy and Super Mario Galaxy 2, Rosalina is depicted as a generally wise, kind, and mature character. She has an intimate knowledge of the universe and cares deeply for the Lumas and her friends, to the point of assuming the role of mother figure for the former. Rosalina is shown to be calm and reserved, and often takes pauses when she explains how the universe works. Her voice is rather monotone, even when she is excited, and also had a reverberating effect prior to Super Mario 3D World.
Since Mario Kart Wii, however, Rosalina has been portrayed as a little bit more upbeat and joyous than her original stoic portrayal, with examples being that Rosalina cheers and shouts louder, though still mostly keeping her introverted nature. Like most players, Rosalina enjoys special activities, but in a more humble manner, such as when she simply waves to the audience upon scoring a point in the Mario Tennis series. Since Super Mario 3D World, Rosalina has also displayed more energy in her actions, such as when celebrating after reaching the flagpole in said game.
When Rosalina was young, she was portrayed as optimistic and proactive, helping a Luma build a spaceship to find the Luma's mother. Even so, she developed feelings of homesickness and melancholy, to the point of crying about losing her mother, though her spirits were raised easily when the Lumas impressed her with comets and an offer to take her back to her home planet.

Rosalina appears to have some sort of cosmic power as seen in Super Mario Galaxy. For example, once sufficient power is restored to the Comet Observatory, Rosalina is able to use her powers to surround the observatory in a force field, transforming it into a starship as a form of transportation. Also, she can create a protective force field that resembles a bubble, which also appears if the player attempts to jump on her. Rosalina can also form similar bubbles around Mario if he falls off the Comet Observatory; it then levitates and drops him back to where he was standing. Rosalina also has the ability to float, just like the Lumas, and at the end of Super Mario Galaxy is shown flying when she departs from the Gateway Galaxy's first planet. She has the ability to speak via telepathy, as shown in the end of the game, where she speaks to Mario, Peach, and Bowser while she's far in space.
Rosalina has been shown to use her wand to deflect Star Bits with it if the player shoots them at her. Rosalina has also shown the ability to teleport, at least from Earth to space. She can also use the spin move from the Super Mario Galaxy games, as seen in Super Mario 3D World, and can still create a shield to protect her if the player attempts to attack her as a non-playable character. She is also able to create giant hologram-like projections of herself, like in Super Mario Galaxy 2, and even change her height, like in Super Mario Galaxy. She also shows more of her powers in the spin-offs games, such as telekinesis, creation of shooting star showers, gravity manipulation, and the creation of Launch Stars.
Even ignoring her powers, Super Mario 3D World and the various spin-offs show Rosalina to possess skills similar to that of the other human characters. She is capable of jumping nearly as high as Luigi, although she is noted to be rather slow on her feet (even more so than Peach). Half of her sports appearances depict her as a Power-type, hinting at considerable strength, and she is adept at driving karts as well. In addition, she is shown to be able to use any and all power-ups that the Mario Bros. can.

As apparent in the storybook, Rosalina cares very strongly for her mother. While Rosalina was a child, she had dreams where her mother was leaving her permanently. While looking back at her home planet after the one hundredth comet passes, Rosalina suddenly realized her mother was dead and burst into tears. Additionally, the storybook reveals Rosalina has an unnamed brother in the seventh chapter, and gives some description about her unnamed father, said to have facial hair he takes pride in, during the final chapter in the Japanese, European Spanish, French, and Italian versions of Super Mario Galaxy. Rosalina bonded with a Luma looking for its mother and soon became the adoptive mother of both it and a host of other Lumas, who in turn comforted her when she mourned the death of her own mother. She often reads bedtime stories to the Lumas in the Library, is accompanied by a Luma in Mario Kart Wii, and battles on a team with a Luma throughout her playable appearances in the Super Smash Bros. series. A Luma named Polari is her most trusted adviser and is often found at her side in Super Mario Galaxy. She is also held in high esteem by Lubba, who refers to her as "The Lady of the Shooting Stars" and is happy to have her on board the Starship Mario at the end of Super Mario Galaxy 2.

 
Mario befriends Rosalina during the events of Super Mario Galaxy, when he recovers the stolen Grand Stars needed to power her Comet Observatory. She then flies her ship to the center of the universe and destroys a fleet of Bowser's airships, thereby helping Mario defeat him and rescue Princess Peach, whom Rosalina had described as Mario's "Special One". As revealed in volume 38 of Super Mario-kun, Peach herself shares a positive friendship with Rosalina. Also in Super Mario-kun, Rosalina is shown to have a funnier and less mature side (following most of the characters in the manga). In volume 37 and 38, Rosalina is shown to ask Mario and Luigi a lot of favors. After they finish some tasks for her, she tells Mario that "he is a good butler."

Luigi assists Mario in the collection of stars in Super Mario Galaxy, at one point giving him a recovered Power Star on the condition that he tells Rosalina that it was Luigi who obtained it for her. The two are also depicted standing together with the Toad Brigade at Peach's Castle in a secret picture that can be obtained by collecting all 121 Power Stars. Rosalina eventually takes an even more hands-on role against Bowser in Super Mario 3D World, when she joins Mario, Luigi, Peach, and Toad in their adventure.
Rosalina is seen being partnered up with Princess Daisy during tennis in Mario Sports Superstars.

Plushies based on Rosalina are manufactured by San-ei. Currently there are two versions: Rosalina in default appearance and another as Cat Rosalina. There are also mini figurines of Rosalina developed by Furuta. Rosalina and Luma have an amiibo of them, which was released February 2015. The figure was originally available at Target, but is no longer available to purchase at any retail stores.

Rosalina has been portrayed by the following voice actresses:

Rosalina's bios typically highlight her role as the keeper of the cosmos and the Comet Observatory, as well as being the mother of Lumas. Since she is an unusual heavyweight character in the Mario Kart series, most bios point to her role as the cosmic guardian as the reason she can hold her own against other heavyweights. For the spinoff installments of the Super Mario franchise overall, Rosalina's emblem is a Grand Star.