Roy Koopa (known as Bully Koopa in the cartoons) is one of the Koopalings, a clan of seven siblings that act as leaders of the Koopa Troop under Bowser (originally considered his children). From what has been revealed about Roy's personality, he is more brawn than brains, preferring brute force over thinking things through, although he is usually seen as more intelligent than Morton. Despite this gruff, tough-guy demeanor, Roy originally wore a magenta shell. He now wears a purple shell with magenta rings around his spikes to give him a more distinct appearance from his siblings. Roy also wears hot magenta sunglasses similar to his namesake, the rock and roll musician Roy Orbison.

In Super Mario Bros. 3, Roy is charged by Bowser with taking over Sky Land. Roy steals the magic wand of Sky Land's king and transforms him into either a duck or an Albatoss with it, depending on which version of the game it is. He then proceeded to rule the kingdom with an iron fist. Learning that Mario had various abilities on him, Roy also expresses some nervousness on whether he and the other Koopalings could beat him.
Once Mario makes it through Sky Land, he manages to reach Roy's airship. He reaches Roy's cabin as well, where he fights Roy. In battle, Roy leaps at Mario and tries to crush him with his ground-shaking stomps. He, along with Ludwig, are the only Koopalings with this ability. Roy can also shoot energy blasts from his stolen wand.
The official Prima Games guide of Super Mario Advance 4: Super Mario Bros. 3 describes that Roy is "a little heavier than his younger family", which might indicate that Roy is one of the older Koopalings.

In Super Mario World, Roy takes over the Forest of Illusion as Bowser invades Dinosaur Land. In this battle, Roy uses Morton's attack pattern by climbing up the walls of his room and dropping down from the ceiling in an attempt to crush Mario. Unlike the last battle, the walls of the arena steadily close in, giving Mario less of an easy time to avoid the attacks. Mario can defeat Roy by jumping on his head three times or hitting him with twelve fireballs. After being defeated, Mario detonates his castle with explosives. Humorously, the explosives fail to detonate in time, proceeding to explode just as Mario approaches the castle to investigate and causing him to be covered in soot and left tattered.
In gameplay, Roy uses the same palette as the blue Koopa Troopas, while in the end credits he uses a gray palette. This palette was likely intended for Morton; Ludwig is given a magenta palette likely intended for Roy.

Roy, along with the rest of the Koopalings, appears in the game New Super Mario Bros. Wii as a boss. He has a purple shell instead of a pink shell from the past games. Unlike his past appearances, where he is the fifth Koopaling that the player had to fight, Roy is the second boss and appears in World 2 instead.
In the game's intro, Roy, Bowser Jr., and the other Koopalings sneak into Princess Peach's birthday party in a giant cake and use it to capture her. They then escape on their airship with Mario, Luigi, Yellow Toad, and Blue Toad pursuing.
In his tower, Roy fires magic as Mario ascends it. In his first fight, Roy's arena is similar to Larry's first arena, except that it is surrounded by quicksand. Before battling Roy, he is shocked that Mario and co. made it to him and roars at them. In battle, Roy ground pounds like a Sledge Bro and Morton. Mario will be stunned by the resulting shockwave if he is on the ground. He will then hop twice before ground  pounding again. Roy's magic is purple in color, and his casting speed is faster than Larry, but the speed of the magic blasts is the same. Like most other bosses, three stomps on the head defeats him. Roy leaves the fortress and flees to the castle at the end.
In the second fight, the arena closes up and there are no hazards. However, Kamek flies overhead and casts a spell on the ceiling, causing five huge Warp Pipes of different lengths to protrude from the ceiling. In battle, Roy will jump into a Warp Pipe and trick Mario by pretending to come out of one, only to go back inside. He will then come out of the pipe directly above Mario, and slam the ground which will stun Mario. In combination with creating a shockwave, the attack also hurts Mario, should he touch Roy as he pops out out the Warp Pipe. After three stomps, Roy is defeated and Mario claims the key that unlocks World 3.
Roy is later seen along with the other Koopalings getting Bowser back up, only to have Bowser's castle fall on top of all of them.
This is also the first game where the player faces Roy before facing Morton. Also, he is not the boss of a sky world (as he is in Super Mario Bros. 3), but rather a desert world (which Morton is the boss of in Super Mario Bros. 3).

Roy returns in New Super Mario Bros. 2, along with the rest of the Koopalings. Roy appears as the boss of World 1-Castle. He once again roars at Mario before battling him. In addition, in the prologue, he reveals to the player that he and the other Koopalings kidnapped Peach during the Mario Bros.' coin hunt by unveiling Peach from within the clown car. He also shows up at the end of World 1-Tower, coming down with a chain to taunt at Mario.
In his battle, Roy charges toward Mario or Luigi (as he would have done in his canceled Super Princess Peach appearance), and shoots magenta fireballs with his magic wand to hit them. The Mario Bros. need to bait Roy into ramming into a wall to stun him. This in return will leave Roy vulnerable to being jumped on. Alternatively, the Mario Bros. can jump on Roy while he is doing the charge attack.
Like in Super Mario World, the walls during his fight constantly close in each time Mario or Luigi stomps on him before he retreats into his shell. After three stomps, Roy is defeated and the player obtains the key, unlocking World 2. 
Roy later rejoins the rest of his comrades at Bowser's castle. There, they use the Koopa Clown Car's petrification device in an attempt to petrify Mario. Afterward, he, along with the rest of the Koopalings, try to aid Bowser by causing him to grow larger, although this results in Bowser knocking them into a lava pit. He and the others survive and try once more to aid Bowser by airlifting him, but the combined weight causes the Koopa Clown Car to crash. Roy, in the aftermath of the crash, breaks the fourth wall by hanging on to part of the "credits" and thus ends up going up to the sky.

Roy appears again in the Wii U title New Super Mario Bros. U and its Nintendo Switch port. Roy is the boss of Rock-Candy Mines, the sixth World of the game. He is once again surprised by Mario's arrival and roars in response. His battle strategy is to shoot Bullet Bills with his cannon and jump between platforms that move parallel to each other during the fight. He occasionally shoots Bullet Bills. He can also jump high in the air and ground pound the floor or platform, which makes him fire Bullet Bills on both sides of his blaster (however, this does not stun Mario like in New Super Mario Bros. Wii). The ground pound can also make the floating platforms appear after he comes out of his shell. Instead of fighting the Mario Bros. in the cabin room like his siblings, he is fought on the crow's nest, like Ludwig. Jumping on Roy three times (or shooting enough fireballs at him), causes him to fall offscreen.
Roy appears in the ending along with the rest of the Koopalings, although they end up escaping by hanging onto Bowser's tail after the latter inadvertently destroyed Bowser Jr's (already damaged) ship.
Unlike the other Koopalings, Roy's render for New Super Mario Bros. U is an alteration of his New Super Mario Bros. Wii render, with his wand-wielding hand being replaced by the Bill Blaster held on his shoulder, and the entire image being mirrored; similarly, Larry's New Super Mario Bros. U artwork is simply reused from the previous game, with only minor details tweaked. Additionally, in his New Super Mario Bros. U artwork, Roy has a Bill Blaster in his left hand, while in-game, he holds it in his right hand; the same occurs with Lemmy and his star bombs.

Roy appears alongside the other Koopalings as a placeable enemy in the final update for Super Mario Maker 2, being available in every game style except the Super Mario 3D World style. Roy receives an original sprite for his appearance in the Super Mario Bros. style, as well as a new sprite for the Super Mario World style. His attacks are derived from his various appearances, attacking with his magic wand from Super Mario Bros. 3 and New Super Mario Bros. Wii, and dropping from the ceiling as he does in Super Mario World and the second fight in New Super Mario Bros. Wii. When given wings, he digs in and out a few times instead of doing it once, moving from place to place each time he digs. He cannot dig into or out of sideways springs.

The Koopalings are featured in the Amada Anime Series: Super Mario Bros., a set of three Japanese OVAs. In the Mario retelling of the story "Momotaro", Roy and his peers appear as minions of Bowser, aiding him in abducting Princess Peach. In "Shirayukihime (Snow White)" Roy also appears in a similar role and ends up being defeated by Mario. He is voiced in this incarnation by Naoki Tatsuta, who also voiced Ludwig, Luigi, and Lemmy in the same anime.

Roy appeared in the interactive Anime adaptation of Super Mario World. On Chocolate Island, he, alongside Lemmy, Wendy, Larry, Ludwig, and Morton, ambushed Mario and Luigi at a fortress. He alongside his brothers fought Mario after Wendy nearly fell into the lava, but was stomped by Mario alongside Morton. Although they got up, Mario by that time broke open a red block to get a Cape Feather and sent them flying.

In the The Adventures of Super Mario Bros. 3 and Super Mario World cartoons produced by Nintendo and DIC Entertainment, Roy Koopa is renamed Bully Koopa. As his name would imply, Bully constantly pummels and pulls cruel pranks on friend and foe alike. Bully seems to have less screen time than most of the Koopa Kids, with the exception of Hip and Hop. However, he did have a major role in "Sneaky Lying Cheating Giant Ninja Koopas", "Do the Koopa", "Recycled Koopa", "Crimes R Us", and "The Yoshi Shuffle". He is also seen having supporting roles in "Mush-Rumors" and "The Night Before Cave Christmas". "The Yoshi Shuffle" is Bully's last animation appearance. He is given a heavy Brooklyn accent in the DiC cartoons, and unlike in the video games, the character wears a spiked collar, has two spikes on his tail but only one spike in the center of his shell, his mouth is rounded instead of feline-shaped, his fingers are more slender than before and he is regarded as the oldest and tallest Koopa Kid. Bully is voiced by Dan Hennessey.

Roy is also featured in the Nintendo Comics System. Here, Roy's personality is similar to his "Bully Koopa" incarnation, but without the Brooklyn accent. The Nintendo Comics System issue "Bowser Knows Best" also revealed that Roy had a pet rabbit named Pookie, whom he would often abuse for his own amusement.
Roy cameos in one panel of Fryguy High Yearbook -- Activity Page!, where he is seen roasting weiners over a Fryguy with Iggy, Lemmy, and Morton.

In Double Trouble, Roy is found piloting the Doom Ship, which he has parked above a patch of Munchers in the Mushroom Kingdom, by Mario. Upon sighting the hero, Roy tries to escape, but if he gets a hold of an anchor, Mario can board the Doom Ship and confront him, discovering the Koopaling is holding Luigi captive. In the best possible scenario that occurs, Roy charges at Mario, who sidesteps, causing Roy to fall over the Doom Ship's railing and be sent plummeting to the ground below. All other possible choices presented to the reader merely end with Roy catching Mario and dumping him off the Doom Ship.
At the beginning of the book, if Mario decides to trust a clone of Luigi created by the GLOM, follows it into an alleyway behind Mario Brothers Plumbing and straps on an odd vest it hands him, he is pulled up into the sky, and onto the Doom Ship. Before Mario can react, Roy catches him in a net, shoves him into a cage with the real Luigi, and pushes the two overboard after placing the cage in a large sack, causing a Game Over.
In Leaping Lizards, Roy and five of his siblings enter the International Mushroom Games, where Roy is the first Koopaling to compete. In two of three possible scenarios in the obstacle course, Roy cheats to get second place, and in the final one, he is knocked out of the race when Rocky Wrench, a member of an opposing team called the Sneaks, cuts a hole in his flying carpet during the last stretch. After his carpet is sabotaged, Roy lands in a patch of Munchers, but is left uneaten due to the plants finding his tough skin unappetizing.
Roy also competes in the second event, the Beetlebowl. In one scenario, Roy teams up with Wendy to score, faking out the Mario Bros. with a ball of garbage he made up to look like a Hoopster while Wendy dunks a real one in their bucket. In another possible scenario, Roy proves immune to the blinding flashes employed by the Sneaks two Fire Snake members due to his sunglasses, and gets a hold of a Hoopster, only to lose it when Rocky Wrench throws ink in his face.
In Koopa Capers, Roy and his brothers have their wands stolen by Wendy, who disappears with them shortly afterward, intent on overthrowing their father with her own army (and a super wand she plans to create by fusing her own wand with her brothers'). If Luigi, who had been coerced by Bowser into searching for Wendy, tracks the female Koopaling down to her hideout, Bowser and the male Koopalings, who had been following him, barge in after Luigi, but decide to stave off punishing Wendy for her mutiny if she helps search for the hiding Luigi. If Luigi had acquired Boom Boom's socks earlier in his adventure, he can toss them into Wendy's simmering wand combination potion, which will release fumes that knock the entire Koopa family and their minions out for at least a week.

Roy appears in the PC and SNES versions of the game. In it, Roy has a green shell, rather than his usual magenta coloration. Following Bowser to the real world, Roy plans on aiding him in his plot to melt Antarctica and flood the Earth. Roy is eventually defeated again in the corridor of Bowser's castle by Luigi, who had been searching for his kidnapped brother. He also taunted Luigi by stating that even if the latter managed to succeed in sealing all the doors to the various parts of Earth, Bowser will still win due to "being up to their tails" in terms of hair dryer amounts. He remains resolute in his belief that Bowser will succeed even as Luigi prepares to defeat Roy with a fireball, informing him as much.

Roy also appears in the Super Mario Adventures comic, where he aids Bowser in his plot to hypnotize and marry Princess Toadstool.

In Yoshi's Safari, Roy appears as the boss of Float Castle I. Roy battles Mario and Yoshi in a large hot-air balloon equipped, at first, with a cannon at the bottom of the basket and two arms on the balloon that throw bombs. After these armaments are blown off, the balloon gets angry and unleashes six cannons. Despite having this mass amount of firepower, Roy is still defeated by Mario's Super Scope.

In Hotel Mario, Roy is in charge of and the boss of Roy's HardBrick Hotel, a hotel with somewhat shoddy electrical wiring. Fought on Roy's Rowdy Rooftop, Roy uses the same attack pattern against Mario in this game as he did in Super Mario World: climbing up the walls and falling from the ceiling, trying to stomp Mario. He also can extend his arms to punch Mario if he is on the floor above or below Roy. Like some of the other bosses, he can completely devour the player if he happens upon an elevator. Ultimately, Roy is once again beaten by the Mario Bros.

After several years of absence in a Super Mario game, Roy makes a return appearance in Mario & Luigi: Superstar Saga. During Bowletta's invasion of the Beanbean Kingdom, Roy acts as a guard in Bowser's Castle, being the fifth Koopaling to be fought. His puzzle room involves having Mario jump onto a higher ledge while Luigi remains on the lower ledge; afterwards, the Bros. have to activate Simu-Blocks to create a path over a pool of lava to where Roy is waiting. After making their way through Roy's puzzle-filled room, Mario and Luigi approach the Koopaling, who flees at the sight of them. Leaving Roy's room, Mario and Luigi are then ambushed by the Koopaling, but manage to defeat him. Defeating Roy causes a barrel to fall into the area, allowing the brothers to make their way to Wendy's room.
In his battle, Roy attacks by spitting fireballs like the other Koopalings, spinning in his shell akin to Ludwig's attack, and stomping the ground, sending shock waves at Mario and Luigi; similar to Morton, the number of spins he does in midair shows how many shockwaves the attack produces. However, unlike Morton, Roy sometimes stomps the ground at a distance, with the resulting shock waves coming close at once. Roy is also the first Koopaling to have a Time Bob-omb on his side during battle, which forces Mario and Luigi to defeat him in eight turns.

Roy reappears in Mario & Luigi: Paper Jam. He first appears in Doop Doop Dunes with Larry, Wendy and Ludwig where they capture Mario, Luigi, and Paper Mario. Before Roy leaves with the other Koopalings, he notices the book in the ground dropped by Mario and co. and was seemly about to take it before he gets interrupted by Bowser Jr., who takes the book from the ground. He later appears in the Twinsy Tropics Dungeon alongside Wendy where they oversee the mining of a special ore that Bowser requires. During this encounter, he is fought alongside Wendy (they planned on fighting alongside Larry, but the latter failed to show), rationalizing they probably will not be much effort. After being beaten, Roy vowed to fight them again while calling Mario and co. chumps before being forced to retreat. When Mario and co. are making their way through Gloomy Woods to get to Mount Brrr again, they need to defeat Roy in his Clown Car in the mission Back Atcha, Roy!. At the end of the game, on top of Neo Bowser Castle, Roy is encountered one last time along with the other Koopalings. Roy and Wendy briefly tell the Mario gang that they will finish them once and for all before fighting them one last time. After being defeated by Mario and co., Roy utters that he regrets everything before disappearing in a shower of stars.
Roy and Wendy are also the first two Koopalings to be summoned together by Dry Bowser in the Battle Ring.
During their boss battles, Roy retreats in his shell to toss Wendy at the Bros. and Paper Mario, and can throw either a ball-shaped rock or a boulder at them. If the boulder is countered successfully, a chunk of it chips off and hits Wendy, who may retaliate by beating up Roy. If she does not retaliate, Roy sighs in relief. Wendy will never attack Roy when fought alongside Dry Bowser, however. When alone, like Wendy, Ludwig and Larry he creates giant magic fireballs with his wand.

Roy appears in Mario & Luigi: Superstar Saga + Bowser's Minions, where he reprises his role from the original game with added dialogue. In his battle, Roy now explains the Time Bob-omb's function directly, and his fireball attack has been modified slightly; In addition to spitting fireballs at Mario and Luigi individually, he can also spit two fireballs that target both of them at once. These fireballs will bounce on the ground once before landing on Mario and Luigi. Roy also no longer sends shock waves at Mario and Luigi, as that ability is now used only by Morton.
He also appears in the Minion Quest: The Search for Bowser sub-mode. Roy first appears in the game's opening where he, Wendy, and Iggy proceed to taunt two Goombas, also entering a brief argument with Wendy when she made a smart remark at his expense. Upon learning that the Koopa Cruiser was under attack, he and Wendy attempt to stop the attack, but learn to their shock that, while the attack was quelled, the main engine took a direct hit and was due to explode. He later spends his time trying to find Bowser, and eventually reunites with the other Koopalings, where they discuss both how to find Bowser and simultaneously casually knocking away several Beanies that were provoked by them being on their territory. However, Fawful proceeds to brainwash them with his mind control spray (albeit in a significantly higher dose than usual due to their strong wills). Roy later tries to ambush Captain Goomba at Joke's End shortly after his troops restore the Koopa Cruiser. However, shortly after being restored to normal, upon their hearing unusual beeping sounds, he warns them to get far away from the Koopa Cruiser, as the Elite Trio set a time bomb on it, and also makes it clear he is not warning them because he likes or even respects them; rather, they would need to rescue all of the troops for them to garner his respect. Later, after the Koopalings are beaten as part of a test, he grudgingly admits that Captain Goomba made a good leader overall (though he later denies being sincere when Wendy asked).
Roy's official artwork for this game is based on his Super Mario World artwork.

In Mario & Luigi: Bowser's Inside Story + Bowser Jr.'s Journey, Roy appears in the game's Bowser Jr.'s Journey sub-mode. Roy was given the task of clearing out Goombas that had been infected with the blorbs while Bowser went off to confront Peach at her castle, due to not being invited to their conference. Roy does so by shoving the blorbed Goombas in a broom closet, surprised at the sheer amount of them; he says that between the blorbed Goombas and the brooms he hates sweeping with, something will have to give. Roy then realizes Bowser Jr. is not doing any work at all, and vents his annoyance at him; said annoyance is further heightened when Bowser Jr. forces a Goomba squad into another round of play-fighting due to not knowing how to count. Roy points out that Bowser Jr. will be their boss someday and that he should act the part, before he and the others are distracted by the arrival of the Best Fitness Friends.
Roy sarcastically mentions that Bowser would let anyone in the castle before demanding that the trio leave, only to end up calling them back after Wendy pointed out that they might be able to help cure the blorbs. The BFFs then present their sales pitch on the Skeletone Formula:D, advertising it as a perfect cure for the Blorbs. Upon watching them cure a blorbed Goomba, Roy demands that they hand over all of their Skeletone; the Best Fitness Friends claim that they only had a sample at the time, although they do provide the recipe. Roy then sets off with Bowser Jr. and the other Koopalings (apart from Lemmy) to find the Giga-carrot in Dimble Wood.
Eventually, Roy declares he has had enough of Bowser Jr.'s bratty nature and leaves the group following an argument. Afterwards, he encountered several minions who were brainwashed with the Malatone Formula :X, constantly forcing him to fight against them all the way back to the castle. He is later seen standing outside of Bowser's Castle, collapsing from exhaustion induced by the constant fighting. Despite reaching his limit and having his mind blank out, Roy attempts to continue fighting alone. Bowser Jr. challenges Roy to a one-on-one fight to stop him from being so reckless, and Kamek heals him, hoping the fight will end in a draw if they're both at full strength. In spite of Junior fainting afterward, Roy ends up joining the group.
Bowser Jr. then attempts to apologize to Roy for his previous actions; Roy does not fully accept his apology until after Morton returns, when Bowser Jr. apologizes to all of the Koopalings at once. After defeating the BFFs as well as their fused form, Roy organized the celebration festivities for the Koopa Corps' victory, with Bowser Jr. ordering him to go ahead with the fireworks. During the credits, Roy and Bowser Jr. attempted to compete with each other regarding bulging muscles.
In the post-game. Roy and Bowser Jr. are both lying around out of boredom when the Koopa Paratroopa Trio attempt to get a shot to show-off for Fawful, only to be reminded that Fawful was already defeated. Roy scolds the Paratroopas for wearing sunglasses in front of him and fights them alongside Bowser Jr.

In the Mario & Sonic series, Roy is first featured as a  Mii costume in both Mario & Sonic at the London 2012 Olympic Games and Mario & Sonic at the Sochi 2014 Olympic Winter Games. He is playable in the Nintendo 3DS version of Mario & Sonic at the Rio 2016 Olympic Games but only in Beach Volleyball. In the Wii U version, Roy appears only as a Mii outfit.

Roy, alongside the rest of the Koopalings, appears as a playable character in Mario Kart 8. This game marks his first appearance as a playable character, and he is also unlockable. Unlike the other Koopalings, he is still voiced by his voice actor in the New Super Mario Bros. series, Dan Falcone. His nickname in a Japanese Nintendo Direct for Mario Kart 8 is ｢重量級の暴走タートル」, or "Heavy Runaway Turtle" (localized as the "Bespectacled Brute" or "Runaway Heavyweight Koopa"). His emblem is a purple silhouette of his head on a black background, and his losing animation has him slapping his face and shaking his head.
Like Morton, Roy is also a heavyweight racer, but he gives up some speed and weight to boost his acceleration, handling, and traction attributes a little. He shares this trait with Donkey Kong, Waluigi, Rosalina, and Link.
Roy is the Staff Ghost for Wii Grumble Volcano. Several courses such as Electrodrome and N64 Toad's Turnpike feature advertisements for "Roy Smooth Sounds", with a logo of Roy's glasses and headphones. The logo is also on the back of the Badwagon.
Roy's main color for his Standard parts and Pipe Frame is his signature purple, and his secondary color is red. The color scheme selection of his other parts is also based on purple, making it identical to that of Purple Miis. This makes Roy the only Koopaling whose color schemes match completely with a Mii of a single color.
Roy returns in the Nintendo Switch port Mario Kart 8 Deluxe, this time as a default character. He now shares stats with only Waluigi and Donkey Kong.

Roy appears in Mario Kart Tour as a Normal driver, added in the Tokyo Tour alongside the rest of the Koopalings. His special skill is the Double Bob-ombs.
Since his addition, Roy has been obtainable from every regular tour pipe (excluding the All-Clear Pipe), and he is also a part of the base Daily Select set. The following table lists additional availabilities for Roy throughout the game's history.

Roy appears alongside the other Koopalings and Bowser Jr. as one of the racing opponents in the virtual reality game Mario Kart Live: Home Circuit. He is seen using his personalized Koopa Clown from Mario Kart 8 Deluxe.

Roy (alongside the other Koopalings) makes his Super Smash Bros. debut as a playable character accessible via Bowser Jr.'s alternate costumes in Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS and Super Smash Bros. for Wii U. He is unlockable in the former game and available from the start in the latter. His attacks and statistics are identical to Bowser Jr.'s, though he is referred to by his own name by the announcer and has his own voice clips. Roy can also appear in place of Bowser Jr. in All-Star mode (like the other Koopalings).
Like the other Koopalings, he is actually driving a mass-produced version of the Junior Clown Car (as noted by the yellow light bulbs that serve as its eyes). The rim and propeller of his Junior Clown Car are colored red (his signature color). He also reuses his voice clips from his appearance in New Super Mario Bros. Wii, thus he is voiced by Dan Falcone.
The title given to Roy in the Boxing Ring is "The Cool One" in American English or "Fear the Shades" in British English in the Wii U version.
Roy shares his name with Roy from Fire Emblem, making them the only playable characters in the Super Smash Bros. series to have the same name.

In Super Smash Bros. Ultimate, Roy (alongside the other Koopalings) returns as a playable character accessible via Bowser Jr.'s alternate costumes. He is once again an unlockable character, like in Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS. Just like in the previous game, his attacks and statistics are identical to Bowser Jr.'s, and he is referred to by his own name by the announcer and has his own voice clips. Unlike in Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS and Super Smash Bros. for Wii U, all seven Koopalings (Roy included) now use their magic wands for any occasion where Bowser Jr. would use his hammer. These occasions include all corresponding attacks, their side taunt, and one of their victory poses. Additionally, his Boxing Ring title is now "The Cool One" regardless of the Switch's regional settings.

Roy appears in Puzzle & Dragons: Super Mario Bros. Edition as a Light attribute character, where he serves as the World 6-Castle and World 6-Airship boss. Unlike the other Koopalings, Roy has a very high defense that reduces the amount of damage that he takes from a single attack to 1, but his HP is on the low side. Roy joins the player when ★World 6- is completed. His Skill is Roy's Lightning, which changes Dark Orbs into Light Orbs, and Heart Orbs into Wood Orbs.
After Roy joins the player, he gets replaced by Double Lakitu as the boss for his castle, while Bullet Bill & Goombas takes over as the boss for his airship.

In the Super Mario Mash-up in Minecraft, Roy appears as a playable skin along with the rest of the Koopalings.

Roy makes his Paper Mario series debut in Paper Mario: Color Splash. In this game, he is the final Koopaling to be fought. Shortly after Mario enters Black Bowser's Castle, he falls down a pit after smashing Princess Peach's portrait with his hammer. He lands in a cell, where Roy and a bunch of Slurp Guys await him. They steal all of Mario's paint, alongside his 1-UP Mushroom Battle Cards, to use them against him in battle. Roy fires the paint with his Bill Blaster after a Shy Guy delivers the paint with a bucket.
Shooting red paint causes Mario to get angry and attack faster; conversely, green paint causes Mario to lose motivation and gives more time for action commands. Orange paint causes Mario to feel self-conscious and only use pre-painted cards. Purple paint causes Mario to get poisoned and take damage before an attack. Yellow paint causes the music to change to an upbeat rhythm and Mario starts dancing, and is not able to use blue cards; inversely, blue paint causes Mario to feel blue and only use blue-colored cards. The background music changes depending on the status effect; an arrangement of the Toad Shuffle music plays for yellow paint and sad music plays for blue paint. The green paint effect slows down the music and red paint speeds it up. The music does not change for the purple and orange paint status effects.
After Roy has used all the paint colors or Mario has damaged him enough, he gets bored and mixes all the paint in his Bill Blaster to create black paint. He shoots the paint all across the cell, and the music changes to a creepy tune. During this time, Roy is nearly invisible and all of Mario's attacks will miss. If Mario uses the Washing Machine Thing, he cleans up the whole cell and destroys Roy's Bill Blaster. If a Replica is used, the start of the Washing Machine animation plays but then goes in reverse, negating the effects. Roy can also attack by punching and jumping on Mario. After the battle, Mario gets his stolen 1-UP Mushroom cards back and Roy surrenders before he decides to take a nap.
Roy's idle pose is based on his artwork used in various material released in the 30th Anniversary of Super Mario Bros., including the Encyclopedia Super Mario Bros.

Roy is included (along with the other Koopalings) as a Boss in the Boss Deck of Monopoly Gamer. He is the fifth Boss in the deck.

Roy appears as a doctor under the name Dr. Roy in Dr. Mario World. He was added alongside Dr. Larry on February 3, 2020. Dr. Roy is available as a special stage reward in World 21. Dr. Roy's skill involves crates, where in stage mode it immediately breaks up to 10 of them (8 prior to version 1.4.0) even if they are covered in another object (e.g. ice) unless they are locked behind cages, while in versus mode it sends a number of them to the opponent's play area, where they fill in any gaps available starting from the topmost row, followed by left to right. Each crate sent this way requires breaking twice to fully remove. The amount of crates sent differ based on level, where it is two at level 1 and eight at level 4 and 5 (the latter has the added effect of filling the skill meter faster). In stage mode, using this skill when there are no more crates left will eliminate a random virus or object (if there are no viruses left), although capsules cannot be removed by this skill.

While Roy does not make a physical appearance in Mario Golf: Super Rush, he and the other Koopalings make a cameo as names competing in the Bonny Greens Open.

Roy was originally going to appear in Super Princess Peach, although he was taken out of the final game along with the rest of the Koopalings. Like in Mario is Missing!, Roy's shell is green in the unused sprites, rather than magenta.
One of his attacks was a ram attack, which was worked into his fight in New Super Mario Bros. 2.

Roy has the same yellow-and-tan skin complexion as the other Koopalings, but his head is mauve instead of the standard green coloration. In the Family Computer version of Super Mario Bros. 3, however, he was depicted as having darker skin similar to Morton. Roy has two fang-like teeth in the upper corners of both sides of his snout, they are the same as Larry's. His mouth is feline-shaped, as his lips are deeply curved, and his nose is flat. His head is a very simple round shape, and like the other Koopalings, he has a four-ribbed, plated belly and padded feet. While Roy's eyes have never been seen in a game, they have been depicted with various inconsistent designs in the DiC cartoons, manga, and comics.
Roy has always been rather large when compared to the other Koopalings, though his posture causes him to appear shorter than Morton and Iggy. He is depicted with long arms and hunched shoulders, much like a gorilla. His shell was originally magenta; it was portrayed as green in the SNES version of Mario is Missing (due to Ludwig, Iggy, and Roy, heads aside, reusing the same body type for their sprites, which featured a green shell), and his unused sprites from Super Princess Peach uses similar colors. In Roy's most recent and current appearances, the shell is purple, lined with a white encasing, and bears multiple short spikes circled with hot magenta rings. His in-game sprites in Super Mario World use a blue palette in his boss battle, and a gray palette in the ending cast roll; the game's graphics do, in fact, contain a fuchsia palette which would fit his head and shell, but for unknown reasons, this is applied to Ludwig's cast roll sprite instead. The Super Mario-kun design for his character gives him a third fang in the middle similar to Ludwig's. Roy wears the same metal, spiked cuffs as the other Koopalings, but his distinctive trademark is a pair of cat-eyed hot magenta sunglasses; his Japanese New Super Mario Bros. Wii site bio describes these glasses as "Bad Boy sunglasses," and says that they are his most defining feature. Although Roy's NES and SNES/GBA sprites for Super Mario Bros. 3 are fairly faithful to his artwork, his sunglasses are depicted as having white and yellow frames respectively, instead of their trademark hot magenta frames.
In the Super Smash Bros. series, Roy's appearance is unaltered compared to most Super Mario characters, including Bowser. In Super Smash Bros. Ultimate, however, his appearance is slightly updated, as are those of Bowser Jr. and the other Koopalings; Roy receives a slightly darker and subdued color scheme, while his spikes, shell, and sunglasses receive simple detailing.
In Dr. Mario World, Roy, or rather Dr. Roy, wears a white armband with a pill design on it and carries a white satchel, although he otherwise resembles his usual appearance.

In the Japanese Super Mario Bros. 3 manual and materials related to the game, Roy speaks in Kansai dialect, which the later games seem to have omitted in favor of him speaking in slang. The American medium shows him as a typical bully who usually beats people up for his own amusement (hence the alternate name Bully). This character trait also carries over to Mario & Luigi: Superstar Saga + Bowser's Minions, where he is shown to enjoy bullying the lower-ranked soldiers of the Koopa Troop. In most appearances, he is nonetheless depicted as preferring brawn and aggression over his brains, but he is usually summarized as pretty quick-witted and more intelligent compared to Morton. In anger when encountering them in New Super Mario Bros. Wii and New Super Mario Bros. 2, he roars at the player to go with his attitude. In addition, his usage of a Bill Blaster in the New Super Mario Bros. games suggests that he likes using firearms as well. Roy outright says that "books are dumb" in Mario & Luigi: Paper Jam, and like his brother Morton, one of Roy's stunts in Mario Kart 8 has him showing off his muscles. He also says that the reason why he is not fond of Bowser Jr. emulating his father’s selfish and rude behavior in Bowser Jr.’s Journey was because he does not like anyone other than himself being that way. That game as well as Bowser’s Minions indicate that Roy can be a patronizing hypocrite. In the New Super Mario U adaptation for the gag manga Super Mario Kun, Roy is indicated to be very vulgar, as he, when encountering the Mario Bros., proceeded to bend over and fart directly in Ludwig and Iggy's faces.
Despite his tendencies towards relying on strength, Roy shows some degree of planning capability at times. In Mario & Luigi: Superstar Saga + Bowser's Minions, he specifically notes that he has a time bomb present to deter the Mario Bros. from beating him easily. Similarly, in Minion Quest: The Search for Bowser he shows some degree of common sense, acknowledging the possibility of Bowser being abducted due to Bowser being somewhat naïve, and after being restored to normal from brainwashing, he also warns Captain Goomba that the Elite Trio had set a time bomb on the Koopa Cruiser. It's also implied that he was also pragmatic enough to recognize he needs to praise Captain Goomba and his men to motivate the troops to free Bowser. In Paper Mario: Color Splash, he tells Mario that he started going to night school because knowledge is power, and steals Mario's color and using it as ammo for his paint launcher before eventually blacking out the arena with black paint; Huey in particular yells that there were "treaties" against the former. His trophy in Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS also hints that he is pretty quick to act as a soldier when the situation calls for it.
As indicated by his use of Mario's paint in Color Splash, much of Roy's planning ability exhibits itself through dirty tactics, established as early as his appearance in the book Leaping Lizards. In both Mario & Luigi: Superstar Saga and its remake in particular, he initially appears to run from Mario and Luigi, with the next section of Bowser's Castle unlocking as usual, only to ambush the Mario Bros. as they proceed. However, even his love of fighting dirty has its limitations; in the remake, while brainwashed earlier in the story, Roy seems to disapprove of Fawful's plan to have the then-brainwashed Elite Trio set up the aforementioned time bomb, calling it "cowardly." His bio in Super Mario Pia also implies that his scoundrel behavior is an act.
Roy's shades and various other hints suggest that he may have a thing for acting or looking cool. This is particularly evident in Mario Kart 8 with his choice of tricks, as well as the advertisements featuring him by "Roy's Smooth Sounds". Roy is also seen driving the Badwagon in the trailers and in artworks; said kart is pink, with many lights that are the same shade of pink as Roy, even in the dashboard, and features many different stereo speakers and a "Roy Smooth Sounds" logo. Mario Kart 8 also suggests that he enjoys music, between the company associated with him and the appearance of the Badwagon in his trailer and artworks. This is also a trait hinted at much earlier, with his quote on the Classic World 2-2 e-Reader card for Super Mario Advance 4: Super Mario Bros. 3.
Roy was also shown to be somewhat sarcastic in the PC version of Mario is Missing, such as when he faked fear of Luigi. His knack for sarcasm is played up in the Bowser Jr.'s Journey sub-mode of Mario & Luigi: Bowser's Inside Story + Bowser Jr.'s Journey, where, upon first meeting the Best Fitness Friends, he says "Man, Bowser will let ANYONE in here...". Despite his generally unfaithful attitude, Roy maintained a large amount of faith in the success of Bowser's plans even if he himself was defeated, as evidenced by his final lines to Luigi before being blasted by a fireball in Mario is Missing!. He also displays loyalty to Bowser Jr. as well, finally accepting his apology along with the other Koopalings. He also cares about the members of the Koopa Troop to some extent despite his constant berating of them, as shown when he was forced to ram through all of Malatone Formula:X-affected troops. The thought of having to battle wave after wave of his former friends mentally overwhelms him, causing him to black out from exhaustion by the time he made it back to Bowser's Castle.

Roy is one of the strongest Koopalings. He has the ability to jump high into the air and use Ground Pounds to cause powerful tremors, capable of stunning (or even crushing) the Mario Bros. He can also climb up vertical walls and drop down from the ceiling to create tremors. He can also use his wand to shoot magic blasts or purple fireballs at his opponents. He is also shown to be strong enough to wield a huge Bullet Bill Blaster with only one hand, as well as lifting a boulder twice his size to throw at the Mario Bros. In Hotel Mario, he uses his brawn by extending his arms to punch at Mario. Like the others, Roy is capable of spitting fireballs and spin around while inside his shell. His unused sprites in Super Princess Peach suggest he was going to throw spiked balls and use a full body tackle for attacking. The latter concept was revived for New Super Mario Bros. 2. In Super Mario World at least, he was also shown to be somewhat athletic, as he was able to run up a wall and on the ceiling before striking a pose when landing. Similarly, in Mario & Luigi: Superstar Saga + Bowser's Minions, Roy was seen tucking into his shell and spinning around in place in it when some Beanies attempted to attack them while conversing with his fellow comrades about Bowser's disappearance. His status as being among the strongest of the Koopalings was further highlighted in Bowser Jr.'s Journey, where after leaving Bowser Jr.'s command and being ambushed by Malatone X-affected minions, he managed to fight off and defeat several of them, defeating enough of them to leave a trail of unconscious bodies and even wipe out three units congregated near the front gates before ultimately passing out from exhaustion and overwhelmed with the thought of having to fight his possessed comrades. Additionally, when he fought Bowser Jr. to settle matters, it took Bowser Jr. all of his energy to be able to defeat Roy without using any critical hits, and required several healing spells to resuscitate Bowser Jr. Super Mario Maker 2 reveals that he can dig by tucking into his shell to another portion of the room, including the ceiling, and can even pull it off on areas not directly attached to the walls.

This is a list for all voice actors for Roy Koopa.