Scary Skeleton Goonies! is the first level in World 6 of Super Mario World 2: Yoshi's Island and Yoshi's Island: Super Mario Advance 3. It takes place in a forest at sunset, with many Skeleton Goonies and Spear Guys in the area, as well as several platforms and hills. This level's playable Yoshi is the green Yoshi.

Yoshi starts out in a long plain, with Spear Guys and Skeleton Goonies, and Flightless Skeleton Goonies. Dancing Spear Guys appear next with a Special Flower above them.
If Yoshi ground pounds an ! Switch found in an invisible Winged Cloud, he will be able to go into a secret entrance indicated by a red arrow. This leads to an optional misty underground room, containing a yellow Flatbed Ferry to let Yoshi collect several coins scattered through the cavern. Several enemies can be found in this cavern, Including many Dancing Spear Guys and a lone Grunt.
Next, Yoshi finds a long section of Winged Clouds, causing bridges to appear when hit. The bridges can be used to cross over large gaps, with Spear Guys in the way. After this, Yoshi must get past Zeus Guys and a single Flamer Guy. Next is an area covered in spikes that can be crossed with a bridge that appears when a Winged Cloud is hit. 
In the next section, Yoshi finds a Middle Ring, and a sign with an Incoming Chomp on it. When crossing this area, Yoshi must dodge several Incoming Chomps, along with Solo Toadies and Zeus Guys in the way. A Special Flower can be found inside the middle of the floor, and is obtained by having the ground destroyed by an Incoming Chomp.
The last section contains several pits with many Skeleton Goonies that drop bombs. A Special Flower can be collected if Yoshi hits it with an egg across a small pit of spikes. A Winged Cloud containing a key can be found, which can be used to open a locked door where Yoshi can play the Mini Battle "Popping Balloons" ("Watermelon Seed Spitting Contest" in the GBA version). Next, Yoshi has to use a Spring Ball to reach a tall platform with a Piranha Plant and a Special Flower in an isolated area. The next area has Flatbed Ferries used to cross large pits, with Tap-Taps in the way. Right ahead, Yoshi must Flutter Jump to the Goal Ring.