Scuttling is a move mainly used by Luigi in several games of the Super Mario series. It is similar to Yoshi's Flutter Jump, except it does not propel Luigi up. Instead, scuttling slows Luigi's descent after he jumps. This allows him to reach greater horizontal distances and allows the player to easily control the landing. The animation for the technique is Luigi kicking his feet in the air, which is also similar to Mario or Luigi's fall under the influence of a Mini Mushroom.

Scuttling is a move used only by Luigi in Super Mario Bros. 2 and its subsequent reissues, Super Mario All-Stars and Super Mario Advance. This was a holdover from the original mechanics of Yume Kōjō: Doki Doki Panic, from which Super Mario Bros. 2 was adapted.

Aside from returning in Super Mario Advance, scuttling appears also in Super Mario World: Super Mario Advance 2 and Super Mario Advance 4: Super Mario Bros. 3, though not both games' original versions respectively. In Super Mario Advance 4: Super Mario Bros. 3, Luigi does not scuttle if he is holding an item, and the gameplay effects of this move are available only when the yellow switch card is active; it is permanently on in World-e.

Scuttling is a move in Super Mario 64 DS. The game introduces the "scuttle" name, and the move has the same controls as Yoshi's Flutter Jump (done by holding  in midair). Scuttling can be used to reach the Mushroom Castle's roof before all 150 Power Stars are collected.

Scuttling is a move in New Super Luigi U, letting Luigi move horizontally at a higher altitude. In this game, Yellow Toad, Blue Toad, Nabbit, and Miis can also use this move. In the New Super Mario Bros. U Deluxe version of the game, Toadette can also use this move.

In Super Mario 3D World and Super Mario 3D World + Bowser's Fury, Luigi kicks his legs during the entire jump (reminiscent of the move's appearance in Super Mario Bros. 2), as opposed to doing so only as he descends; this reduces his speed both upwards and downwards, making both halves of his jump easier to control. When Peach is in her Cat form, she uses a similar animation to the scuttle when performing her Floating Jump.

In Super Mario Maker, Weird Mario has a move similar to Luigi's scuttle, extending his airtime a little longer; however, it is used only briefly after he jumps and not while he falls.

Luigi retains his scuttle to slow his descent in Super Mario Run.

In Super Mario Bros. Wonder, the Floating High Jump badge can be equipped by any playable character. It increases a player character's jump height, in addition to giving them a scuttle that allows them to slow their vertical descent after jumping, which looks identical to and functions just like Luigi's scuttle in other games. Like in New Super Luigi U (and the New Super Mario Bros. U Deluxe version of New Super Luigi U), Luigi, Blue Toad, Yellow Toad, Nabbit, and Toadette can all use the scuttle with this badge equipped. Notably, this badge also allows Mario, the Yoshis (Yoshi, Light-Blue Yoshi, Yellow Yoshi, and Red Yoshi), Peach, and Daisy to use the scuttle, with the Yoshis even being able to use both the scuttle and the Flutter Jump simultaneously.

Scuttling is performed by Luigi while jumping in later entries of the Super Smash Bros. series, including Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS / Wii U and Super Smash Bros. Ultimate.