Seesaws are lifts in the Super Mario franchise. They are usually airborne and they tilt left or right, depending on where the player character is standing. In some games, enemies and rolling obstacles also tilt seesaws. They are often suspended above bottomless pits.

Teeter-totters, also referred to as seesaws, first appear in Super Mario World 2: Yoshi's Island, where one is first found in the hidden ! Switch area in The Cave Of Chomp Rock. In this bonus area, a Yoshi must tilt the seesaw to collect the coins; if he falls off, he can no longer reach them and is forced to leave the area. A seesaw also appears in Burt The Bashful's Fort and in King Bowser's Castle.
Another, shorter variant, also called a teeter-totter, appearing as a bar of log similar to Spinning Logs, is found in later levels, first appearing in Watch Out For Lakitu. Each of these logs balances on a small point in the middle. Standing on them causes them to tilt and potentially fall unless a Yoshi is in the center. Most of the log-based ones are each situated on a post that ends in a wooden stake. The posts also sometimes have a different color like other posts, such as dark blue in cavern levels. Certain wobbling logs balance on other surfaces that are not dangerous to touch.

Varyingly sized seesaws, also referred to as tilting platforms, appear in Poochy & Nippy and Frustration in Yoshi's Story. They are made of wood and suspended above bottomless pits. Standing on one end of a seesaw tilts it and allows the Yoshi to reach higher areas. In addition to appearing throughout the stage, seesaws occur during the boss battle with Cloudjin in Poochy & Nippy, who tosses spiked balls. They cause the platform the shift and throws the Yoshi off-balance. Egg Blocks appear above them too. The eggs roll down tilted seesaws when expelled.
In part of Frustration, a Lakitu tosses spiked balls above the seesaws, like Cloudjin. They cause the platform the shift and throws the Yoshi off-balance. In the last portion, a melon is located near the bottom of stage and requires standing on the left corner of a long seesaw to reach.

In Yoshi's New Island, both types of seesaws appear in the level Seesaw Scramble, with the larger variant also appearing in Gargantua Blargg Attacks!

In Yoshi's Woolly World and its port, seesaws appear in the levels Big Montgomery's Fort and Lava Scarves and Red-Hot Blarggs. They behave the same as in the New Super Mario Bros. games.

Seesaws appear throughout Super Mario 64 and Super Mario 64 DS. Their designs and shape vary depending on the course, often matching the local topography. A thin, wooden seesaw is located near the Chain Chomp on the Bob-omb Battlefield. It is suspended by a thin stone like the teeter-totters in the Yoshi's Island series, above a dry riverbed patrolled by Bob-ombs.
Wider stone seesaws appear in the final section of Bowser in the Dark World, Big Boo's Haunt, Bowser in the Fire Sea, The Secret Under the Moat, Rainbow Ride, and Bowser in the Sky. These ones are fastened to pivots in the center and are suspended above bottomless pits. Some of the ones in Bowser in the Fire Sea and Bowser in the Sky are unconventionally shaped and oblong. A trapdoor-like seesaw in the library of Big Boo's Haunt drops the player character into the basement if they stand on it for too long. This seesaw also exists in the center of the third room of Big Boo Battle exclusively in the DS version.

In Super Mario Advance 4: Super Mario Bros. 3, two seesaws appear in the World-e level A Towering Tour. Players can make them tilt left or right by placing themselves on the corresponding side, and the Seesaws can do a full 360° rotation.

In New Super Mario Bros., two seesaws appear in World 1-2. One of them allows the player to access a gap at the top of the level, where the third Star Coin and the secret exit are located. They behave the same as the larger variant in Super Mario World 2: Yoshi's Island. 

In the Boo Moon Galaxy of Super Mario Galaxy 2, a crescent-shaped seesaw called the teeter-totter moon appears suspended in the sky. It shifts back and forth based on where Mario is standing on it. During Silver Stars Pop-Up, Star Chips appear above the teeter-totter moon that need to be collected to form a Launch Star. The moon otherwise appears in the game's credits, surrounded by Lumas.

Seesaws return in New Super Mario Bros. 2, only appearing in World 2-2 and World 6-5. They behave as they did in New Super Mario Bros. 

While Seesaws themselves do not appear in New Super Mario Bros. U, New Super Luigi U, or their remake, a similar type of seesaw, the Seesaw Shroom, appears in the former game as a type of Mushroom Platform, along with a blue variant in the latter game.

The seesaws in Super Mario 3D World have convex divots at opposite corners to keep spiked rollers from rolling off their sides. Standing on one corner causes the spiked roller to roll along the surface, making navigation hazardous. They are otherwise varyingly designed. In Tricky Trapeze Theater, the seesaws are fastened to the sides of aqueducts and suspended above empty space. These ones are colorful and lined with lights. The seesaws in Spooky Seasick Wreck are made of wood and varyingly shaped, similar to Super Mario 64. The one at the end of the course is conventionally shaped and suspended above ground by wooden beams. This seesaw can be tilted to reach the top of the course's Goal Pole.

Seesaws appear only in New Donk City in Super Mario Odyssey after Mario and Cappy complete A Traditional Festival! A scarecrow occurs in the northwest corner of the city. Striking it causes three black and white seesaws to appear fastened to the side of a skyscraper for a brief period of time. They behave as they do in previous game, shifting under Mario's weight. Hopping between the the seesaws brings Mario to the Metro Kingdom Timer Challenge 1 Power Moon. If he is standing on one when the time limit runs out, he falls down a pit. The black and white design of these seesaws matches those of the other temporary platforms that appear during Timer Challenges in New Donk City.

Seesaws appear as a course element in Super Mario Maker 2. They are colored orange in the Super Mario World style, and red in all other styles. In the Super Mario Bros., Super Mario Bros. 3, and Super Mario World styles, they appear to be metallic, but in the New Super Mario Bros. U style, they are wooden. Like normal Lifts, their length can be changed, and they can be placed on tracks. They work similarly to their appearance in Super Mario Advance 4: Super Mario Bros. 3 (with the Super Mario Bros. 3-styled ones even resembling them), in that they tilt left or right depending on the player's or an enemy's position, but they can no longer do a full 360° rotation.
Seesaws can be abruptly tilted when a Thwomp falls on one side, throwing any playable characters and objects on the other side high into the air. This can also be achieved if a player Ground Pounds on the Seesaw (requiring a Dry Bones Shell to do so in the Super Mario World style and either a Dry Bones Shell or a big Goomba's Shoe in the Super Mario Bros. and Super Mario Bros. 3 styles). Furthermore, Bowser can perform this as well in the Super Mario Bros. 3 style using his Ground Pound attack.
The following is a table listing the different weights of each course element.

While Seesaws do not appear in New Super Mario Bros. Wii, they appear without custom textures in the game's code, implying that they were originally meant to appear within the game.