Shangri-Spa (also parsed Shangri Spa) is a location in Paper Mario: The Origami King. It serves as the main setting for the green streamer district and features a total of five hot springs, which are the Spring of Purification, the Spring of Bliss, the Spring of Sanctuary, the Spring of Jungle Mist, and the infamous Spring of Rainbows. Additional features of Shangri-Spa include an entrance, a front desk, a central plaza with a fountain, and a banquet hall that has been crushed by Bowser's Castle. The existence of Shangri-Spa is hinted by messages on statues of its resident Toads found on various islands in The Great Sea.
The name of Shangri-Spa is a pun of Shangri-La.

Right after defeating Tape atop the Sea Tower and destroying the purple streamer's spool, Mario must use the Magic Circles in the area to access the four Vellumental idols. He must then hammer a red button on each idol to makes it rotate toward a center platform; once all four idols are facing the platform, each fires a beam from its mouth. The beams merge and creates a beacon of light on the platform that warps Mario and Olivia up to the entrance to Shangri-Spa.
Olivia suggests they follow the green streamer through the clouds that part to reveal an entrance hall, which appropriately reads "Paradise Found" (a reference to the 1667 epic poem Paradise Lost by John Milton). Inside, there are Toads who welcome them. Mario must head to the front desk and speak to the receptionist, who requests a 1,000-coin "donation" fee to get started. He then gives them access to four of the five springs offered at the resort, as well as the Stamp Card. Mario must use the stamping station at each spring after using it to fill out the card.

As Mario and Olivia exit the entrance hall, they find Kamek, who informs the two of Bowser's second capture and how Bowser's Castle fell from the sky and onto the resort, crushing the banquet hall. Suddenly, a Toad comes out, angry at Kamek for destroying the banquet hall, ruining several reservations and prompting him to charge several fees. Kamek teams up with Mario and Olivia and directs them through the central plaza, which is full of Bowser's minions cleaning the spa. He leads the two to the castle, which is in ruins. Mario and Olivia head toward the castle, but are forced to retreat when Boss Sumo Bro appears on its cloud and almost strikes them with lightning. Just then, Bowser Jr. appears, trying to rescue his father. He races toward the castle only to be cut into pieces by Scissors, weakening him and his clown car. Mario, Olivia, and Kamek take the dismembered pieces of Bowser Jr. to the Spring of Purification, which pieces Bowser Jr. back together, but leaves him creased, folded, and dirty. The group then takes him to the Spring of Bliss and the Spring of Sanctuary.
After using all four springs, Bowser Jr. is smoothed out and cleaned, although he loses his color and energy from soaking in the Spring of Jungle Mist for too long. Fortunately, at this point, Mario can speak to the receptionist at the front desk to receive a Spring of Rainbows - VIP in exchange for the completed Stamp Card. This is used as a ticket to gain access to the exclusive and secluded Spring of Rainbows, located off to the west of the plaza.
After Bowser Jr. is finally restored to normal, he flies Kamek, Mario, and Olivia up to Boss Sumo Bro's cloud. Mario defeats Boss Sumo Bro, clearing the path to Bowser's Castle. Before entering the castle, Kamek uses the spa intercom to rally the minions to take back the castle.

The first area of the resort, the entrance, is small with a simple bridge connecting to a building that serves as an entrance hall. Here, Mario can use the light beacon to return to the top of the Sea Tower at any time. Inside the entrance hall is a line of white Toads wearing wings and togas with one particular Toad at the front desk who works as the receptionist. There is a statue behind him resembling one of the many seen in the Great Sea; additionally, all of the other Toads here recite "Seek and ye shall find" and "Come, follow me to paradise", each of which are quotes inscribed in the statues.
In the northwest corner of the entrance hall is a miniature model of what appears to be the Super Marino - the Toad next to it labels it the "Spa Marino", used to guide guests to Diamond Island. Mario can ask him for an extended story. The Toad then goes on about a legend of how the Spa Marino was stolen by Captain T. Ode, who gave it to King Shroomses in exchange for his crown. However, as one of the resort's most prestigious visitors, the king conspired to have him successfully captured and frozen. Olivia comments this must have cooled him down, making him kinder to the others.
In the southwest corner of the entrance hall is a statue with a sign calling it "Shan". In the southeast corner is a statue with a sign reading "Gri-spa" - saying these messages together sounds like saying "Shangri-Spa". Next to this statue is a mural from King Shroomses as a gift for the resort's service. To the right of the entrance hall is a Warp Pipe that serves as a shortcut between Shangri-Spa and Musée Champignon in Toad Town.

To the left of the entrance hall is the Spring of Purification, effective for rips and tears. Nearby is the stamp station for this hot spring, which Mario is able to use immediately after soaking in it. Outside the building, a white brick path leads to a bridge connecting to a central plaza with a fountain. There are signs noting the main locations of the spa just outside the entrance hall and in the plaza. From the plaza, there are other bridges leading to other hot springs. The Spring of Bliss is east of the plaza, the Spring of Sanctuary is south of the plaza, and the Spring of Jungle Mist is off far northwest of the plaza in its own location. The banquet hall is normally north of the plaza, but was crushed by Bowser's Castle and surrounded by rubble. The Spring of Rainbows is hidden away west of the plaza and can only be accessed after earning the Spring of Rainbows - VIP ticket; its location on the map is also obscured.
All the hot springs in the area fully restore Mario's HP if he soaks in them.

Two shop stands ran by Snifits can be found in the west end of Shangri-Spa.

This stand is available after pulling out the yellow Snifit stuck in the bridge leading to the Spring of Jungle Mist.

This stand is available after speaking to the blue Snifit sitting on top of the stand.

1 - Available after buying Shangri-Spa Toad

NOTE: Some collectibles are found in areas that are inaccessible until returning later; these entries are highlighted in beige.