Shifting Sand Land is an ancient Egyptian-based course and the eighth course appearing in Super Mario 64 and Super Mario 64 DS. Its name may be a reference to the "Shifting Sands," one of the magical, impassable deserts that surround the Land of Oz in L. Frank Baum's Oz books. The entrance to the level is in the Mushroom Castle's basement, disguised as a wall at the end of the hall to the left of the painting into Lethal Lava Land. The course has several sand dunes, quicksand, and an ancient pyramid in the center. Klepto the Condor circles the course and attempts to steal the player's cap if he gets near. In addition, this course shares the same music as Lethal Lava Land.

The player starts on a stone slab in the sand next to some sand dunes and a Crazed Crate. Up ahead are some Bob-ombs, a Fly Guy, a Pokey, and some Goombas, all around a stone structure containing a few blocks underneath and a red block and yellow block on top. Near this stone structure are a number of circular quicksand pits: one with a 1-UP Mushroom hovering over the top, and one that spawns a tornado if the player approaches. Beyond the stone structure is a maze-like path constructed out of stone blocks over a pool of quicksand with three Tox Boxes flipping around the paths. To the right are a cannon and a red block, and to the left is an oasis with a Bob-omb Buddy next to it. A Warp Point is placed under the palm tree and leads to the aforementioned cannon and red block. South of the oasis are two of the four stone pillars situated around the pyramid, with the other two on the other corners of the pyramid. Mario, Yoshi, Luigi, and Wario can run up the sides of the pillars despite them being smooth and near-vertical surfaces. After the quicksand with a tornado is a ramp to the pyramid's entrance, with the exterior of the pyramid having a yellow block and red block, along with a ring of steps that lead to the top of the pyramid. If all four of the pillars have been stood upon, the top of the pyramid explodes and opens a new entrance.

If the player enters the pyramid, they cannot return to the main course. Additionally, if the player loses a life and reenters the level, they are brought back into the pyramid without having to go through the main course again, provided the life lost does not result in a Game Over.
Upon entering the pyramid, the player is dropped into a short hall that leads to either a left or a right path. The left path leads to a 1-UP Mushroom and a Grindel that hops across the platform and can help the player reach another 1-UP Mushroom. The right path leads to the top of the pyramid, where the player has to go through several obstacles to reach the top. These obstacles include Grindels, large gaps, Amps, moving platforms, a Spindel, and a hanging grate the player can grab and swing across. Halfway up the pyramid is a Spinning Heart, which the player can use to recover any lost health. At the center of the pyramid's base is a large sand pit that restricts the player's jumping ability and acts as quicksand.
If the player enters through the secret entrance on the top of the pyramid, they are brought to a fenced lift that moves down through the center of the pyramid. At the bottom of its rail is a hole that leads to a secret room where the boss of the level, Eyerok, sleeps.