Shiverburn Galaxy is a galaxy appearing in the game Super Mario Galaxy 2, located in World 5. It is similar to the Freezeflame Galaxy from Super Mario Galaxy, as it revolves around the elements of lava and ice. Octoombas and Elite Octoombas are common enemies here, while the area's boss is the flame-wielding Prince Pikante. This galaxy uses the same music that is used in the Freezeflame Galaxy. Internally, the galaxy's background elements have the name "BeyondHellValleySky", likely named after an area in Japan named Hell Valley, which has hot springs and is surrounded by snow.

The Magma Boat Magma Planet and the Magma Boat Ice Planet are the two forms of the Starting Planet. It is shaped like a horseshoe and initially covered in lava, with a relatively large stone platform at one end and a Launch Star leading to the Magma Slice Planet on the other. A small floating volcano is located in its center point, while tall rock formations surround it. This planet features platforms that slowly sink in the lava if the player stands on them. A moving platform takes the player to a Cloud Flower, which they can use to get to the other Cloud Flower. They encounter a few Octoombas, Elite Octoombas and Pulse Beams along the ride. There is a switch in the middle of a platform that instantly freezes the lava so the player can walk on the planet's surface; the sinking platforms will no longer sink when the Starting Planet enters the Magma Boat Ice Planet form. Near the end of the path, the player can either take the Launch Star to the Magma Slice Planet or the pipe behind it to the Muimui Attack Planet.
It is possible to Long Jump as Cloud Mario from near the planet's starting point across the bottomless pit to reach the Launch Star on the other side. This means that the planet can be left without having to ground pound the switch which turns the planet icy.

This planet lies at the Starting Planet's center, and houses the first Green Power Star. It has a volcano on its top half, and its bottom half is round. Its climate is dictated by the Starting Planet's current form. If the Starting Planet is in the Magma Boat Magma Planet form, the Volcano Planet's volcano erupts, and if Mario tries to enter the volcano at this point, he will be repelled by the constant fire explosion, taking damage as a result. Freezing the Starting Planet into the Magma Planet Ice Planet form will end the eruption; Mario can safely enter the volcano then. Mario can only access this planet with the Cloud suit from the Starting Planet.

Several irregularly-shaped rock formations surround the planets. Due to their distance from the visited planets, these planets normally cannot be accessed; however, Mario flies through one on his way to the Ice Magma Skate Planet.

The Muimui Attack Planet is only accessed during The Chimp's Ultimate Skating Challenge mission. It looks like the exact same ice rink from the Freezy Flake Galaxy's mission. There are 9 holes in the ground and The Chimp challenges Mario to get 600 points by defeating Gummits, giving him a Power Star as a reward.

The Magma Slice Planet is a spherical mass covered in magma bisected by a magma and rock wall. Rock platforms float around in a circular manner to help the player get across. Many Octoombas ride these platforms as well. If the player stays on the platforms for too long, they will be dragged into the lava walls. After the first half of the planet, there is an area with three coconuts, two Octoombas and a treasure chest. The player can open the chest with a coconut for a 1-Up Mushroom. The second half is generally the same as the first half except that there are now meteors falling down. There is another 1-Up Mushroom found at the end. The Launch Star will take the player to the Ice Magma Skate Planet. The Comet Medal is also near the Launch Star. The second Green Power Star can be found here.

The Ice Magma Skate Planet is a fusion of both ice and magma. When the player first lands, they should notice a long road covered in ice. However, meteors bombard the path and create molten fire puddles that will burn the player if they touch it. The player will need to navigate around the puddles while avoiding getting burnt, falling off, or being hit by the Elite Octoombas. The end of the ice path coincides with the start of a magma pond, where the player will need to defeat five Roctos in order to proceed. At the next part, Ice Meteors will drop from the sky and form a temporary path to the Launch Star. The player should quickly skate on this to Prince Pikante's planet. There is a cloud platform nearby with a 1-Up Mushroom; the third Green Power Star can be found hovering above it.

This planet is visited right before the fight with Prince Pikante. A Toad and a Lumalee are found here.

The Vs Ota Rock Tank Ice Planet is a generally small planet. It is completely covered in ice and is closely shaped like a peanut. There is a fence around it so the player will not fall off. Prince Pikante is fought on this planet. This area is also used as the only planet for the Octo-Army Icy Rainbow Romp, where many different Octoombas appear. However, this mission removes the fence present when fighting Prince Pikante.
Despite serving as his battle arena, the internal name of this planet refers to the Rocto enemy Prince Pikante is based on.

The players will redo the Prince Pikante's Peppery Mood mission. When players freeze the lava, the volcano will freeze as well, stopping the lava from flowing. Players must climb to the top of the volcano using the Cloud Flower to grab the first Green Star.

Players will redo the Prince Pikante's Peppery Mood mission. However, players should make their way all the way to the Magma Slice Planet. At the end of the planet, there is a 1-Up Mushroom. To the right of the mushroom is the Green Star.

Players should redo the Prince Pikante's Peppery Mood mission and need to have the Cloud Flower for this Green Star. Players need to make their way with the Cloud Flower to the Ice Magma Skate Planet. They should notice a cloud with a 1-Up Mushroom on it. Players need to create at least one cloud to get the Green Star located directly above it. If players do not have at least one cloud or the Cloud Mario/Luigi power-up, the Green Star cannot be obtained.

If the player uses first-person view and looks up at the glacier cliffs in the background, a group of mysterious figures can be perceived.  These three figures also appear in the background of the Pull Star Area in Grandmaster Galaxy, as it uses the same background.
While three are most easily visible, a fourth one is mostly hidden behind the cliffside. This is due to two appearing on each texture, with a taller one on the left and a shorter one on the right, with two of these textures appearing next to each other. They are separate from the galaxy's background textures, and the filename of the graphics that depict them is "HellValleySkyTree". "BeyondHellValleySky" identifies the background and sky textures and "Tree" refers to the figures themselves.
The figures look similar to a mythical Japanese creature called a kodama. They are said to live in trees, or on tall mountains, and will supposedly curse a person if they attempt to cut one down.
A similar figure can be seen in the near background near the flagpole if the player waits long enough at the end of World 4-4 or near the window at the beginning of World 8-4 in Super Mario 3D Land.