A Shoe Goomba, originally known as Kuribo's Goomba (essentially meaning "Goomba's Goomba"), is a special type of Goomba that wears a Goomba's Shoe, first appearing in Super Mario Bros. 3.

In Super Mario Bros. 3, Kuribo's Goombas only appear in World 5-3. When they spot the player, they will follow them by continuously jumping. If Mario knocks them off blocks, he can grab the Goomba's shoe to walk on hazards, such as Munchers.  In Super Mario Advance 4: Super Mario Bros. 3, a single one appears near the end of the World-e level It's a Shoe-In.

Although regular Shoe Goombas do not appear in Super Mario 3D World, a new variant wearing an Ice Skate called a Skating Goomba does.

Shoe Goombas return in Super Mario Maker under their current name, as well as in Super Mario Maker for Nintendo 3DS, where they are enemies exclusive to the Super Mario Bros. and Super Mario Bros. 3 styles, and have the same attack pattern as before. However, they always leave their shoes behind, regardless of how they were beaten. When given wings, they will flutter for a few seconds after jumping. A new variety, the Stiletto Goomba, is also introduced. In the Super Mario World and New Super Mario Bros. U styles, Shoe Goombas are replaced by Yoshi's Eggs.

Shoe Goombas return in Super Mario Maker 2, behaving as they did in its predecessor.

A Kuribo's Goomba appears in The Adventures of Super Mario Bros. 3 in the episode "Super Koopa". Like in the game, Toad takes its shoe by knocking it off a row of Brick Blocks, while stocking up on power-ups to bring to the Mario Bros. in Paris. Unlike in the game, the Goomba is not defeated, but runs away instead.

Shoe Goombas make their Paper Mario series debut in Paper Mario: The Origami King, where origami Shoe Goombas appear as enemies. They can be encountered if the player engages in a battle with the Spiny or Buzzy Beetle at the end of Breezy Tunnel. They are immune to jump attacks. When defeated, they drop a type of Flashy Boots weapon upon returning to the overworld.

Shoe Goombas make their Mario Kart series debut in Mario Kart Tour as part of the first route for Madrid Drive. In this game, their shoes are yellow, similar to those of Skating Goombas from Super Mario 3D World. They appear in the Santiago Bernabéu Stadium, kicking soccer balls.

Shoe Goombas return in Tour Madrid Drive in the Booster Course Pass for Mario Kart 8 Deluxe. They function identically to their Mario Kart Tour appearance.