Shy Guy Towers (known as Shy Stacks in Paper Mario) are Shy Guys arranged in a tower formation.

Shy Stacks debut in Paper Mario, where two of them are fought immediately before the boss battle with General Guy, after the Shy Squad and Stilt Guys. A Shy Stack consists of four Shy Guys standing on top of each other and has a cumulative attack power that equals the number of Shy Guys in the stack. The moves Spin Smash, Shell Toss, Power Shell, and Fire Shell can be used to knock off the stack one by one, decreasing the attack power, as long as the enemy isn't shrunken. They use slingshots to attack, like Sky Guys and Spy Guys in the same game, as well as regular Shy Guys in Super Mario RPG: Legend of the Seven Stars and its remake. In their tattle, Shy Guys Towers are described as having "an incredible sense of balance."

While not an enemy that can be fought in Paper Mario: Color Splash, three Shy Guys stack themselves in the Redpepper Crater, peeping on a Boo in the waterfall. If Mario hits them with his Hammer, they complain it took them three hours to stack themselves to get a view, and if they are hit again, they fall down and do not get back up again, while telling Mario to find his own spot. When Mario talks to the Boo, the Shy Guy Tower falls down, since the Boo thinks they are looking at it.

They also appear in Yoshi's Island DS, along with Pirate Guy Stacks. If a Yoshi licks one of the Shy Guys in the stack, they will fall down and become regular Shy Guys.

Shy Guy Towers return under their new name in Yoshi's Woolly World and Poochy & Yoshi's Woolly World. Unlike in Yoshi's Island DS, the tower cannot be disbanded by removing a single Shy Guy from the formation; however, this is not the case when Yoshi steers through them as Moto Yoshi. When one of them is eaten or attacked with a yarn ball, any other Shy Guys that were staying on top of it drop a level lower. They can also be stomped on one by one, or Ground Pounded from the top to instantly defeat all of them. Often, the Shy Guy at the top of the tower holds a Bead or a Bomb. They prominently appear in Shy but Deadly while one consisting entirely of black Shy Guys appears in the area with Bomb Guys in King Bowser's Castle.

Shy Guy Towers later reappear in Mario Sports Superstars in the "Road to Superstar" mode as enemies, though only two Shy Guys stand on top of each other. They can be defeated by the sports balls that the amiibo cards yield.

Shy Guy Towers reappear in the Shy Guy Train Tussle co-op challenge of Mario Tennis Aces. They appear in stacks of their respective colors and can be hit for coins. During Frenzy Mode, three or four very tall stacks of Shy Guys appear in front of the players, with crates between them containing coins and power-ups. At the top of each stack there is one crate containing a key of a specific color that will open the corresponding chest present in the stage, giving the players coins. To get a crate closer to the ground, the player has to defeat as many Shy Guys in the respective stack as possible before Frenzy Mode finishes.

Shy Guy Towers reappear in Yoshi's Crafted World, behaving exactly the same as in the Yoshi's Island series and Yoshi's Woolly World.