The Shy Guy Airtub is an enemy that first appears in Mario & Luigi: Dream Team. It is a miniature Airship, armed with two cannons on each side and a big one on in the front. They are always seen piloted by three Shy Guys.
Shy Guy Airtubs appear in all areas except for Pi'illo Blimport, Pi'illo Castle, Somnom Woods, and Neo Bowser Castle. However, they only appear in sections the player gains access to during the Ultibed part hunt. They are background enemies, and they only appear in the background during battles with other enemies. Defeating the Shy Guy Airtub lets the player fight the three Shy Guys that were flying it. The Shy Guy Airtub R is a stronger variant that can be found much later in the game, as is the Shy Guy Airtub DX.
Shy Guy Airtubs also appear as a prominent part of Bowser's battle in Dreamy Neo Bowser Castle. They are larger, and some have three side cannons instead of two.
Shy Guy Airtubs make a cameo appearance in Mario & Luigi: Paper Jam, where three of them bring the Papercrafts and Toadette to Neo Bowser Castle.
Shy Guy Airtubs reappear in Mario & Luigi: Bowser's Inside Story + Bowser Jr.'s Journey as part of Bowser Jr. (Flying)'s captain command Shy Guy Swarm, where they attack all enemies that have been targeted beforehand. However, they can also hit allies if they are targeted beforehand.
They also appear in Mario & Luigi: Brothership, where they are being led by Bowser and are shown to carry two Shy Guys each instead of three.

The Airtub attacks differently depending on whether it is in the foreground or background. When it is in the background, it shoots cannonballs from the side cannons at Mario and Luigi. These arc off the screen and drop down from above. If a cannonball is fired out of the left cannon, Mario must hammer it back at them. If fired out of the right, Luigi must hammer it back at them. When a Shy Guy Airtub is defeated in the background, it crashes and explodes. The Shy Guys in the craft are launched into the battle. This does not damage the enemies currently in battle.
If lured into the foreground by using a Taunt Ball. the Airtub attacks by firing two giant spiky balls out of the giant cannon, one at each bro one after another. The majority of the three Shy Guys will point at who will be fired at first. Mario and Luigi must hammer the balls back at the Airtub to damage to it. If the Airtub is defeated through countering this attack, it will crash into the ground and explode; damaging and likely defeating all other enemies Mario and Luigi were fighting. The three Shy Guys that were controlling the Airtub land from the explosion and join the battle.