Shy Guy's Toy Box is a location in Paper Mario. It is the home of the Shy Guys and the location of the fourth Star Spirit, Muskular. It is found in an empty house in southwestern Toad Town. It is the base for General Guy's army. After Chapter 3 is cleared, Mario finds Shy Guys causing mayhem in Toad Town, and Twink suggests searching the empty house for the next Star Spirit. To find the toy box, the player must use Lady Bow in the empty house to become invisible, and then a Shy Guy will uncover a secret wall, revealing the entrance to Mario. Shy Guy's Toy Box makes up most of Chapter 4, where Mario shuttles between the Toy Box and Toad Town, solving puzzles and making progress. Watt lives here, and after Mario and his companions defeat the Big Lantern Ghost, she joins their team. The Toy Box consists of several miniature areas linked by a circular railroad. Characters shrink upon entering the toy box and return to normal upon exit. It is, however, possible to throw a Toy Train into the miniature box, which will then become a normal-sized, functioning train for the characters inside it.

Shy Guy's Toy Box consists of four areas that link to each other via train stations. Each station has a color (blue, pink, green, red in the order they are visited) and has a Save Block and a map signboard. Hidden blocks can be found all over the toy box. Toad workers can be found at each train station. There is no train initially.

The area with the Blue Station serves as the entrance/exit of the Toy Box. When Mario enters the Toy Box via the Springboard outside it, he will become small and land on the Springboard in the clearing in front of the Blue Station. Mario can use the latter springboard to get out of the toy box and return to normal size.
To the left of the Blue Station is a hallway to a playground. A yellow Shy Guy and a Groove Guy can be found in the hallway, as well as an Anti Guy guarding a chest containing one of the Power Plus badges available in the game. Mario can fight the Anti Guy, or bribe him with a Lemon Candy to get the badge. The playground on the far left is inhabited by Shy Guys of various colors that hold items including the Calculator, Cake Mixes, Mushrooms and Fire Flowers. They will drop the item they hold after defeated by Mario. 
To the right of the Blue Station is a hallway with jack-in-the-boxes to get over large objects. After that, Mario climbs some buildings to get over a wall. At the end of the hallway is a treasure chest containing the Storeroom Key, which is guarded by a Goomba, Clubba, or Mushroom depending on Princess Peach's choice at the end of Chapter 3. By returning the Storeroom Key to Harry, Mario will be able to get the Toy Train in his storeroom, which can bring the train system to life when thrown into the toy box. The Toy Train does not shrink, and instead becomes a full size train inside the toy box.

After the Toy Train is put to work, Mario can only stop at the Pink Station. A treasure chest holding the Mailbag can be found near the station; Mario can optionally return the Mailbag to the Toad Town Post Office for a reward.
The area to the left of the Pink Station is blocked by Gourmet Guy, so Mario can only go right at first. There are treasure chests containing the Defend Plus and the Ice Power badges on the way, and Mario has to use Jack-in-the-boxes and the revolving doors to proceed. At the end of the area is a treasure chest containing the Frying Pan, guarded by a Fuzzy, Hammer Bro, or Thunder Rage. After Mario returns the pan to Tayce T. of Toad Town, the cook will make a Cake for Mario, which is Gourmet Guy's favorite food. (Additional Cakes can be made from Cake Mixes held by Shy Guys in the Blue Station area playground, after the pan is returned.)
After Gourmet Guy is given a cake, he will drop a Cookbook and go away, allowing Mario to go to the back side of the area to the left of the station. By going back in the same direction, Mario can find a lever and use it to fix the train track. This allows Mario to go to the Green Station.

The Green Station area can be cleared by hitting the four boxes near the station in the correct order. The player can do the sequence if they already know it. The area to the right has some conveyor belts and nets which Mario must use Lady Bow's Outta Sight to pass through. One of the enemies in this area, a yellow Shy Guy, holds the Mystery Note, and Russ T. of Toad Town can decipher it. However, his Dictionary has been stolen. Mario must get the Dictionary from the treasure chest at the end of this area, which is guarded by either a Pokey, a Koopatrol or a Super Soda item.
Russ T., equipped with the Dictionary, will translate the note which reveals the order: yellow, green, red, then blue. Hitting the boxes near the train station in this order (2nd, 1st, 3rd, 4th from left to right) causes the boxes to explode and the train track to be fixed, which allows Mario to get to the final area: the Red Station. Hitting the blocks from left to right spawns four coins instead; any other order will simply spawn one Shy Guy per box.
The Slot Machine is in the area to the right of the Green Station. There is no area to the left of the station.

The Red Station area is where two boss fights occur. There is a Heart Block near the Save Block by the station. The area to the left is where the Big Lantern Ghost is. Mario must first pass through a chunk with elevators and a Super Block. There is also a Deep Focus badge in a hidden block. Then there's a dark room where the Big Lantern Ghost is. After defeating the ghost, Mario frees Watt and she joins Mario's party. In the area to the right of the station, Mario must first use Bombette to blow up a toy wall, which causes a herd of Shy Guys to flee. After arriving at the lair of these Shy Guys, which is also dark, Mario uses Watt to light up the room, which causes the Shy Guys to break the wall to General Guy's room. Defeating General Guy sets the fourth Star Spirit Muskular free and ends Chapter 4. It is possible to go from the Red Station to the Blue Station, but Mario must pull another switch to make the whole track unobstructed.
? Blocks and hidden blocks containing items and coins can be found all over the toy box. There are 7 Star Pieces in total. Four are found underground in front of stations, two are found near buildings to the right of the blue station, and the other one is located under the final platform with the Dictionary in the Green Station.

These enemies are assigned to guard treasure chests, and they are available through Princess Peach's answers to Bowser's questions in Chapter 3.

In addition, the following items are available as Peach's choices:

There are thirteen hidden ? blocks in Shy Guy's Toy Box.