Sirena Beach is a location found on Isle Delfino in Super Mario Sunshine. It is located on the island's south coast, right behind Pinna Park. Its name probably derives from "Sirena", the Italian and Spanish term for "mermaid". It also bears similarity to the term "serene", describing the atmosphere of the beach. Sirena Beach is famous for being the home of Hotel Delfino, a well-known four-star hotel and seaside resort. The level itself can only be accessed through a red Warp Pipe in Delfino Plaza, on top of the building behind the Grand Pianta Statue. The pipe is initially blocked by a giant pineapple and eating it with Yoshi will open up the level, meaning this level can only be accessed after the player has cleared Episode 4 of Pinna Park. Mario only visits Sirena Beach in the evenings (the only time it can be seen during the day is when it is viewed from Pinna Park).

Sirena Beach has three main areas: the exterior and the interior of Hotel Delfino, and the hotel's casino. 
The exterior of the hotel is a large beach with pools of water, torches, cabanas, and terraces nearby. The layout of the beach is, if examined closely, identical to the layout of a Nintendo GameCube Controller, if seen from the hotel looking out to the sea. The pools of water represent the , ,, and  buttons, a small flame to represent the , the chairs set up beyond that to represent where "Nintendo GameCube" would be printed, and two cabana huts to represent the  and . During Episode 1 and Episode 6, the beach is covered in electric goop and the hotel itself will be inaccessible during those episodes.
The interior of the hotel consists of three floors and a maze-like attic. Mario can enter the hotel by talking to the hotel manager at the front door. Once Mario enters the level, he is not able to leave unless he returns to Delfino Plaza through the pause menu or completes the current episode. Mario can move through the different rooms in the hotel, though most of the doors to the lobby are locked from the outside. In Episode 7, however, all of the doors to the lobby are open. There are many secret passages in the hotel that either lead from one room to another or to a different floor. During certain missions, Boos can be found in various areas in the hotel but are more prevalent in some episodes such as Episode 2, with some disguised as Coins and in Episode 7, where many of them are also disguised as Shadow Mario.
The hotel's casino is accessed by talking to the bellhop to the left of the first floor. Like with the main hotel, Mario cannot leave the casino unless he returns to Delfino Plaza or completes the current episode. He can only access the casino during Episodes 4 and 5. The casino is made up of large slot machines, two of which Mario can turn by using FLUDD to either spray each individual slot on the slanted one or the machine as a whole on the rounded one. A large roulette wheel is placed in the center of the room.

The music of Sirena Beach is mostly inspired by Hawaiian music (albeit adjusted to be slightly unsettling). While an upright bass provides a bassline, a steel guitar slides repetitively. Synthesizer and maracas play constantly in the background, while electronic organ and acoustic guitar also contribute to the melody. The theme was composed by Shinobu Tanaka.