Skeet is a Shooting Event that appears in the Wii version of Mario & Sonic at the Olympic Games. The aim of the event is to shoot as many of the clay targets as possible, with the event taking place on the Beijing Shooting Range Clay Target Field. Shy Guy, Toad and Espio appear as referees in this event.

In this event, the player starts by setting the size of their aiming cursor, which is done by pressing  to stop the dot as close to the middle of the heart. The dot moves upwards and downwards in a zigzag pattern, and if the player lands it in the inner red circle, they will get a "Good!" rating and will have a larger crosshair to aim with during the event. If the player lands in the larger pink circle, they will receive an "OK!" rating and their crosshair will remain the same size, however landing in the blue area that makes up the rest of the heart will award them a "Bad" rating and will cause their crosshair to shrink. The player has ten seconds to stop their size, and failing to do so within the time will cause their rating to be "Bad" and their crosshair to shrink. The overall time the player takes to do this is totalled up throughout the event and used to break ties, with the character who took less time placing higher than the slower one. Once the player has set their crosshair size, they will step up to shoot. Each station has a different number of targets, with four on stations 1, 2, 6 and 7, five on 3 and 5, 6 on four and eight on the final station. The player only has as many cartridges as there are targets, and will end their station early if they shoot all of their cartridges before the last skeet. To shoot the targets, the player must aim their crosshair using the Wii Remote and fire by pressing . The skeet fly horizontally across the screen and their direction is indicated by arrows, with no more than two onscreen at a time. hitting all of the targets at a particular station will give the player a "Perfect!" rating. The player gains an individual score for each station based on the number of targets they successfully, hit and a total score for the event is used to decide the winner.