The Slick tires are a set of unlockable tires in Mario Kart 7, Mario Kart 8, and Mario Kart 8 Deluxe. They resemble Formula One Pirelli P Zero tires, which (except for the wets) are also slicks.

In Mario Kart 7, the Slick tires provide the strongest speed boost (tied with the Gold Tires), while also offering a small weight boost. Their acceleration is hindered slightly, but their handling and off-road are hindered heavily, and their handling is tied with the Monster, Red Monster, and Gold Tires for having the weakest handling among all the kart parts. They are also tied with the Gold Tires for having the worst off-road boost in the game.
In terms of hidden stats, the Slick tires excel very poorly while underwater, but they are also one of the very few tires that boost speed, but do not have a negative impact on air handling. 
When compared to the Gold Tires, the Slick tires are slightly lighter and have much worse sea handling, but have better air handling and acceleration. Also, unlike the Gold Tires, which hinder drifting, the Slick tires boost drifting positively. The Slick tires are the only tires in the game to boost both speed and drift in a positive way, and also are the fastest tires in the game to provide a positive drift boost.

The Slick tires return in Mario Kart 8 and Mario Kart 8 Deluxe as unlockable tires, with their appearance being altered to an extent. Their statistics are also different in that they no longer have a negative impact on handling in any terrain, and do not boost speed as much as in Mario Kart 7. However, the Slick tires still have one of the worst water speed stats in the game along with the Wood tires, but their water handling has been improved to make up for it. They are also the fastest tires while on any of the anti-gravity portions of a track and their air speed has been increased as well, but their traction stat is the worst in the game. 
The Slick tires also have a variant called the Cyber Slick, sharing the same stats as them.
In Mario Kart 8 Deluxe, the Slick tires still share their stats with the Cyber Slick tires and their water speed has been slightly improved, though the air speed is significantly worse. The acceleration, handling, traction and mini-turbo stats have also been further worsened. The Slick tires still have the worst traction stat, and have the lowest stat total out of all tires in the game. CPU Luigi uses these tires with the Circuit Special.

The Slick tires return in Mario Kart Tour, used by the Circuit Special, Black Circuit, Green Circuit and Carrot Kart. Red versions are used by the Blue Soda, light green versions are used by the Dark Trickster, pink versions are used by the Wild Pink and Sakura Hop Rod, gold versions are used by the Sports Coupe 2022 and Flowery Badwagon, silver versions are used by the Jukebox Buggy, pink and silver versions are used by the Cupid's Arrow, yellow-lined versions are used by the Lightning Streamliner and Blooper Shuttle, yellow-rimmed versions are used by the Green Speeder, red and orange versions are used by the Flaming Speeder, blue and silver versions are used by the Blue Speeder, light pink versions are used by the Pink Speeder, red and gold versions are used by the Holiday Speeder, and gold and green versions are used by the Gold Trickster.

Stat values are out of 6.