"Slider" is a musical theme composed for Super Mario 64 by Koji Kondo. It is a frantic bluegrass/country interpretation of the "Super Mario 64 Main Theme" motif, played in D major at a presto tempo. The name "slider" is used in Japanese for the "slide" type of level.

In Super Mario 64 and its Nintendo DS remake Super Mario 64 DS, "Slider" is the background music in, as the name implies, all slide areas; it also plays in Tick Tock Clock, Rainbow Ride, Tower of the Wing Cap, Vanish Cap Under the Moat, Wing Mario Over the Rainbow, and during Koopa the Quick's footraces. In Super Mario 64 DS, it plays in Battle Fort and in all four stages in Vs. mode.
The melody is played on fiddle, and the countermelody on whistle, with banjo, piano, acoustic bass, and drumset as accompaniment.

The following list does not include ports and remakes.

In Mario Party 2, the beginning of the track "The Blue Skies Yonder" uses the first few notes of "Slider".

In Super Mario Galaxy 2, an arrangement of "Slider" is used for the slide in Tall Trunk Galaxy, and while rolling the Star Ball in Rolling Coaster Galaxy. In the latter case, it adjusts in tempo and intensity to match the speed of the ball, fading into a sparse version played on sine synthesizer, two recorders, and harp if it is kept still, and increasing in speed (affecting the pitch continuously, as opposed to an increase in tempo) when the ball accelerates down the rail launchers.

In Super Mario 3D World, an arrangement (titled "Plessie's Plunging Falls" in the official soundtrack) is played while riding Plessie. The accompaniment uses guitar and bongos.

In Super Mario Bros. Wonder, an arrangement of "Slider" plays during the Bonus: Coins Galore! course. The cannons fire coins and the Talking Flowers chant to the rhythm of the theme.

In Super Smash Bros. Melee, an orchestral arrangement of "Slider" titled "Rainbow Cruise" was arranged by HAL Laboratory composer Shogo Sakai for the stage of the same name. The arrangement also incorporates the Underwater Theme from Super Mario Bros. In the Super Smash Bros. Melee: Smashing...Live! album, the arrangement is played by a live orchestra.
The song returns in Super Smash Bros. Brawl (titled "Rainbow Cruise (Melee)") and can also be played on Rainbow Cruise. This arrangement again returns in Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS, where it can be played in Smash Run, and in Super Smash Bros. for Wii U, where it can be played on the Delfino Plaza stage. It is once again titled simply "Rainbow Cruise" in both the Nintendo 3DS and Wii U versions. The arrangement returns in Super Smash Bros. Ultimate, titled "Slide (Remix)", and can be played on any Super Smash Bros.-series and Super Mario-series stage.

In Paper Mario: Sticker Star, a big band arrangement titled "Go Go Trolley!" ("Go, Go, Trolley!" in the British English version) is played during the mine cart ride in Bowser's Snow Fort.

In Nintendo Land, an arrangement plays on the Slide Hill stage of Mario Chase, with the second bar adding in the opening six notes from the Super Mario Bros. Ground Theme. The tempo increases when the timer reaches 60 and 30 seconds.

Another big band arrangement was created for Mario & Sonic at the Sochi 2014 Olympic Winter Games. The arrangement opens with an original introduction played on trumpet and electric guitar, the former of which is used for the main melody for the remainder of the song, and trumpet, saxophone, and electric guitar solos are added partway through the song.

A different arrangement was created for the Wii U version of Mario & Sonic at the Rio 2016 Olympic Games. This version is more faithful to the original "Slider" than the version heard in Sochi 2014.

In Captain Toad: Treasure Tracker, as well as its Nintendo Switch and Nintendo 3DS ports, an arrangement of "Slider" is played in the Coins Galore levels.

In WarioWare: Move It!, an arrangement of "Slider" plays during the Super Mario 64 DS boss microgame.

Nintendo Live 2023 in Seattle, Washington, USA featured a live performance by the Super Mario Super Big Band of themes from various Super Mario games, including "Slider".

1 - Added as downloadable content on July 31, 2015