The slide (sometimes called sliding down a slope and also called the Slide Attack and Slope Slide) is a move triggered by crouching on a slope. In 2D Super Mario platformers, it is generally used to increase the character's momentum or to knock out enemies that stand in the way. The player can also slide in 3D platformers, although in most of them, it is automatically triggered upon the player landing on a steep slope and is intended to keep the player from accessing certain areas, rather than as a form of attack.

The slide first appears in Super Mario Bros. 3 and reappears in many Super Mario games. The character sits and slides down the hill while gaining speed (they go even faster on icy slopes); they are invincible to most enemies while sliding, though they become vulnerable again upon the character stopping. Also, characters can do a midair jump by sliding into midair and jumping.
In Super Mario Bros. 3, Frog Mario and Hammer Mario cannot normally slide; however, the latter can slide if Mario grabs a Hammer Suit while sliding.
In Super Mario World, it is also possible to slide up a hill by crouching while running up one. Unshelled Koopas are also capable of sliding against Mario.
As of New Super Mario Bros., sliding has the same point chain as Invincible Mario.
Super Mario 3D World is the first 3D platformer to implement sliding as a form of attack. This move also appears in Super Mario 3D World + Bowser's Fury, where it acts the same way as in the original game.
In Super Mario Run, when the player lands (as in, from the air) on a slope and is facing in the direction of it, they slide automatically. Sliding can be stopped either by using a non-jump move, including a Spin Strike, or by slowing down enough from flat terrain or upward sloped surfaces. Yoshis cannot flutter-jump during a Slope Slide, and therefore cannot stop sliding as easily as everyone else.
In Super Mario Maker 2, the characters can slide on slopes in every style but Super Mario Bros., as the move was introduced in Super Mario Bros. 3. As of version 3.0.0, Frog Mario can slope-slide.

In Super Princess Peach, Princess Peach can perform two different slide forms: Slide and Hill Slide. With Slide, Peach can slide on a flat surface by squatting while running, which can strike low-lying foes and crush blocks. With Hill Slide, she can slide off a slope by squatting on the slope of the hill.

In Wario Land II, Wario Land 3, and Wario Land 4, the player can press  while Wario is on a slope to make him slide down on it, which segues into him rolling until he hits a wall. In Wario Land: Shake It!, slopes automatically send Wario sliding on his belly without making him roll, defeating enemies on his way.

In Mario vs. Donkey Kong: Mini-Land Mayhem!, Mario vs. Donkey Kong: Tipping Stars, and Mini Mario & Friends: amiibo Challenge, steep slopes cause the Minis to slide down uncontrollably. Sliding can sometimes be used to attack enemies, such as Shy Guys, Pokeys, and Cursed Mini Marios, or destroy fragile rocks. Slopes of any material (ground or Red Girder) can also attenuate long-distance falls, making the toy slide against the slope's surface instead of breaking on contact. In general, Minis cannot climb uphill slopes, and they will instead turn in the other direction shortly after they encounter one; however, Mini DK's Quick Climb ability in Mini Mario & Friends: amiibo Challenge allows the toy to run up slopes of any angle.