Smorgs are small, black, cloud-like enemies with yellow eyes. They appear in the sixth chapter of Paper Mario: The Thousand-Year Door. Later, they collectively form a large entity of the same name, who serves as the chapter boss. Their name is derived from "smog," based on their dark, cloudy appearance, and possibly "org," short for "organization," referencing their swarming behavior. Their vocabulary consists only of the word "Smorg."

Individual Smorgs are first seen at Riverside Station, where they lift the drawbridge to stop the Excess Express from progressing. Mario discovers a large group of them hidden within the station, who are trying to conceal a switch controlling the bridge. Mario fends off the Smorgs, causing them to retreat. With that, Mario activates the switch that lowers the bridge, allowing the train to pass. The next day, it is revealed that the Smorgs stowed away on the train and kidnapped the passengers. Mario saves the conductor and the waitress from the Smorgs, which makes them realize that everybody must have been attacked in their sleep. Mario makes his way towards the front of the train on top the train cars to rescue the rest of the passengers. When the Smorgs are cornered on the top of the train, they combine into a large Smorg horde that attacks Mario and his party.
As a boss, Smorg is made up of massive hordes of individual Smorgs. In the GameCube version of the game, the base is made up of a cluster of magenta Smorgs while black ones consist the external parts of the boss. In the Nintendo Switch remake, all of the individual Smorgs are black. At the beginning of the battle, three tentacles, referred to as Smorg Miasmas, surround the main body. Once the tentacles are defeated, the magenta Smorgs making up the base will become exposed (in the Nintendo Switch version, the black Smorgs making up the base will turn magenta), reducing its defense. After Smorg takes a significant amount of damage, the tentacles change shape into a pincer claw, which deals a large amount of damage to Mario and his partner. Once defeated, the individual Smorgs blow away in the wind, releasing the passengers. It is the only chapter boss aside from the Shadow Queen that does not guard a Crystal Star.

In volume 34 of Super Mario-kun, Smorg takes over the Excess Express and must be defeated by Mario. Unlike in the game, individual Smorgs can already be seen collecting inside the train shortly after Mario boards.
When defeated, Smorg is revealed to be a tiny mustached creature that guards the train: he was trying to direct people's attention towards the dust that had accumulated the entire time, resulting in the Smorg monster. The Sales Stall employee decides to help him by cleaning the train, getting help from Mario as payment for the items he gave to him during the battle.