Snack Basket is a Bros. Attack used in Mario & Luigi: Bowser's Inside Story and its Nintendo 3DS remake, Mario & Luigi: Bowser's Inside Story + Bowser Jr.'s Journey, which is unlocked after acquiring all 10 Dimble Wood Attack Pieces.
When using this attack, the brother who started the attack will throw a basket into the air, which opens up and releases a bunch of cookies and other sweets that start raining down. Luigi will then eat the falling food while the player controls him with the . As a result of his snacking, Luigi gets very fat and jumps on top of Mario, who then proceeds to lift him up. The player must rapidly mash  here so Mario can push Luigi upwards. After that, Luigi is tossed into the air, and falls back down to the ground. Pushing the  button at the correct time with make Luigi perform a Ground Pound-esque maneuver. When Luigi lands, a big shockwave will hit all of the enemies on solid ground for great damage. This move has no effect on airborne enemies. In order to get an "Excellent", the player must miss no more than two pieces of food while controlling Luigi with the  and raise Luigi fully while mashing . After Luigi has finished the attack, he will shrink down to his normal size. This attack costs fourteen SP in the original game and eighteen BP (twenty BP on Easy) in the remake. 
This, Green Shell, Yoo Who Cannon and Mighty Meteor are the only required Bros. Attacks in the game; Snack Basket is required because it is the only attack that can knock the Star Sage Chakron out of his thousand year pose at the top of the cliff in Plack Beach so the bros can acquire the third and final Star Cure.
In Mario & Luigi: Bowser's Inside Story + Bowser Jr.'s Journey, the player can make Luigi jump upwards by pressing  while he is trying to eat the food so he can eat them much earlier. The food is also more spread out and fall slower, making it easier for Luigi to eat every food, but the player only needs to eat the glowing food in order to make Luigi reach the largest size.