Sneak Peak is a secret course resembling Mt. Lava Lava in Wario Land: Shake It!. Its Secret Map is hidden in Mt. Lava Lava, and it also has a Secret Map to Lowdown Depths.

Like Mt. Lava Lava, Sneak Peak is a volcano with pools of lava being the main impediment and an erupting volcano being the main background. Enemies like Volcannons and Bandineros still dominate the level. However, walls become white and many boulders of various sizes appear. Wario starts by standing on moving platforms to get across the lava and collecting coin bags. When he enters the volcano, he has to jump on small boulders to proceed and get the treasure. Exploring deeper, Wario finds a huge boulder on a row of Bomb Blocks. He must give a shake to proceed, in the meantime the Bomb Blocks starting the countdown. Wario has to quickly go down and get the diamond before getting crushed by the boulder. In the next section, there is also a huge boulder underneath, and Wario has to outrun it to get another treasure. As he jumps on several moving platforms to reach the tunnel, he then comes inside the volcano again where more boulders come out of openings in walls and roll on the ground. Wario must avoid every boulder either by hiding or by jumping over, and eventually reach the caged Merfle. The 'Golden Enemy' here is a Shortfuse. As Wario frees the Merfle, he begins his long return. He will have to avoid several Volcannons and compete with another boulder for the last treasure. In the next section, Wario also has to jump over small boulders that rush toward him to proceed, sometimes jumping onto them for more coins. As he gets into the Max Fastosity Dasherator, he will have to avoid attacks from many Boomdineros and collect coins, meanwhile rushing to the end of the road. Falling down from above, Wario finally manages to take all the coins and treasures home before time expires.

Hidden in Sneak Peak is the Secret Map to Lowdown Depths. Wario must first reach the place where a large golden coin is found above a few metallic blocks. Pounding these blocks will cause a boulder to roll. Going far to the left side, performing an Earthshake Punch, Wario finds the map.