Donut Plains 2 is the third course of the Flower Cup in Super Mario Kart, and returns as the final track of the Extra Flower Cup of Mario Kart: Super Circuit and as a classic course in Mario Kart Tour starting with the 2021 Cat Tour. Like the first Donut Plains, it is also a muddy course.

The course begins with a brief straight followed by a left turn and the only set of Question Blocks. Racers then take a gradual left turn followed by a right turn and a left turn; along the turns there are several Gophers, which jump out of their molehills and right onto the player's kart if they contact them in the wrong moment. Racers then take a U-turn to the right immediately followed by a U-turn to the left; on the outside of the left turn is more Gophers. A gradual left turn then leads racers into another right U-turn, followed by a brief straight with some slippery mud. Afterwards there is one last left U-turn with more Gophers, and racers reach the finish line shortly after. Unlike the other Donut Plains courses, racers do not need to cross over water at any point.

Donut Plains 2 reappears in Mario Kart: Super Circuit, and is the fourth track of the Extra Flower Cup. It uses the background from Riverside Park. The Monty Moles were removed from the track and an extra Item Box can be found on the left side before the second U-bend.

Donut Plains 2 returns as a classic course in Mario Kart Tour debuting in the 2021 Cat Tour. The inside walls are thinner, and a thin path was made through the mud patch. As in Donut Plains 1, the mud patches now slow down racers. The molehills of the Monty Moles can now be tricked off of. Additionally, the first and last Monty Moles in the first group were removed, and the remaining ones were moved forward. The second group was reduced from eight to four, with the first three spread out along their curve's starting width. Only two Monty Moles remain on the last U-Turn. Lastly, the Monty Moles in the grass are gone. The course now has a starting banner with the classic Mario Kart logo. 
The course also appears as Donut Plains 2R (reversed), Donut Plains 2T (with ramps), and Donut Plains 2R/T (reversed with ramps). In the R/T variant, racers drive across several mushroom trampolines, and several more appear as decoration.

For this course's tour appearances, see List of SNES Donut Plains 2 tour appearances in Mario Kart Tour.

Select "show" to reveal the drivers, karts, and gliders for which SNES Donut Plains 2 and its variants are always favored or favorite courses. For instances in which additional drivers, karts, and gliders temporarily had this course and its variants as favored or favorite courses, see List of SNES Donut Plains 2 tour appearances in Mario Kart Tour.