Rainbow Road is a course that debuted in Super Mario Kart, as the fifth and last course of the Special Cup. It started the Mario Kart series tradition of having Rainbow Road as the finale of the game. It is the shortest Rainbow Road in the series.
This course is unique in Super Mario Kart in the fact that it is the only track in the game that is not numbered compared to the others, and thus it is the game's only unique track. It is the only track in the Special Cup with normal traction, but lacks rails entirely and has only 90° turns. Rainbow-colored tiles and a few jumping bumps cover the track's surface, and the yellow tiles conceal coins. This course features Star Thwomps which can wipe out a racer by touch, unlike regular Thwomps, as well as by crushing, unless the racer uses a Super Star or a Boo.
Rainbow Road reappears in Mario Kart: Super Circuit as the fourth and final course of the Extra Special Cup, in Mario Kart 7 as the fourth and final course of the Lightning Cup, in Mario Kart 8 as the second course of the Triforce Cup as part of the The Legend of Zelda × Mario Kart 8 DLC (and in Mario Kart 8 Deluxe as part of the base game), and in Mario Kart Tour, debuting in the Tokyo Tour. If one counts Mario Kart 8 and Mario Kart 8 Deluxe as two separate games, then Rainbow Road is the most frequently appearing classic course in the series, having appeared six times in different games. In the opposite case, its number of appearances is then tied with Mario Circuit 3, also from Super Mario Kart, the latter course re-appearing in Mario Kart 8 Deluxe as part of the second wave of the Booster Course Pass DLC.
In Mario Kart: Super Circuit, the Rainbow Road theme rearranges a part of this course's music at its beginning; it is also rearranged in The Super Mario Bros. Movie as part of the song "Buckle Up." Super Mario Kart composer Soyo Oka also considers this course's theme to be one of her favorite compositions.
The track's location has alternated between each of its appearances. In Super Mario Kart, Mario Kart 7, and Mario Kart Tour, it is in space, but in Mario Kart: Super Circuit and Mario Kart 8, it is in the night sky.

The course is composed mostly of straightaways and 90° turns. There are also Super Thwomps as obstacles, which remain airborne on the first lap. The course begins with a right turn followed by a straightaway, with most of the ? Panels in the middle as well as several jump pads. The first row of four Super Thwomps also lies at the end of this straightaway. There is then two right turns followed by a brief straight with several more jump pads. Racers then take two left turns onto another brief straight with two pairs of Super Thwomps. After another two right turns, the track narrows and racers must go left or right as the path briefly splits; the paths are symmetrical and each contain a pair of Super Thwomps, though the right path has two ? Panels. Once the paths join, the track widens again and there is one more right turn followed by one more straightaway with a row of four Super Thwomps. Racers then reach the finish line.

There is a notable shortcut near the end of the track. The player can use a Mushroom to go off a jump pad in between the split paths and clear the gap, saving time and avoiding the Super Thwomps.

This version of Rainbow Road reappears in Mario Kart: Super Circuit as the last track of the Extra Special Cup. The background is similar to this game's own Rainbow Road, but with only the twinkles, foreground clouds, and moon appearing; the background starts at the highest level rather than starting near Earth and working up. In addition, the track's surface is now transparent (with the twinkles slightly visible through it), the tiles are notably more detailed and less spaced out than before, and their borders are now the same color as their respective tiles rather than all of them being black. The Super Thwomps and jump bumps are removed. The coins had their placements altered so that they are only on the blue tiles, making them visible. The music was also arranged into this game's sound font.

Rainbow Road also returns as the fourth and last course of the Lightning Cup in Mario Kart 7, as well as the thirty-second and last course of the game overall. It is the first Rainbow Road to reappear as a classic course in another Mario Kart, even excluding its reappearance in Mario Kart: Super Circuit.
The track is now slightly wider, and has received many graphical improvements. It uses a similar background to Super Mario Kart (which is also used in DS Waluigi Pinball), though the blue tint was removed, and the stars are now depicted across the entire background, rather than only the top. Unlike previous incarnations, this new version adds the characteristic "glistening" sound effect when drifting on it, a common feature of all Rainbow Roads starting from the GCN rendition. The number of coin rows on the track was reduced, though there are still three per row. When the player enters first-person view, the player can see through the breaks in the tiles. The Super Thwomps return after being removed from Mario Kart: Super Circuit, though they now have an appearance based on Thwomps from New Super Mario Bros. Wii, are larger, were reduced from sixteen to seven, now topple racers rather than spinning them out, and form ripples on the track upon impact, which the player can now trick off of. Additionally, howling noises can now be heard near the Super Thwomps.
The tiles' colors are similar to the Mario Kart: Super Circuit rendition of Rainbow Road, with the only difference being that they are square, paler, and the pink tiles replace the red tiles and the cyan tiles replace the teal tiles. The track is no longer translucent, making it look like its appearance in Super Mario Kart. The widest part of the gap in the forked road has had two tiles removed, but the gap itself has also had seven tiles removed, making the shortcut easier to use. Also, the section of tiles before the fork (from the orange tiles on the narrow part of the straight after turn 7 to the purple tiles before the gap) is wider: the first orange, blue, yellow, and last purple tile rows before the gap are now two tiles wider. The finish line is also two tiles long, removing the red tiles that used to be in front of it. Ramps are added in all of the locations where bumps appeared in Super Mario Kart, though the first two bumps were not replaced, the last pair at the fork were replaced by one taller ramp in front of the gap, and a ramp was added on the inside of the second U-turn, creating a shortcut that requires a Mushroom or Mini-Turbo to get across; the ramps are only two tiles wide, rather than the bumps which were three. Like most other SNES and GBA classic courses, a starting banner stylized after the one from Mario Kart 64 is added in this course.
This is the only course in Mario Kart 7 not to have a Dash Panel/ramp, and one of four courses not to have a Glide Ramp; the others are N64 Luigi Raceway, GCN Daisy Cruiser, and Rosalina's Ice World.
Aside from enhanced percussion, the music is faithful to the original SNES composition.

Rainbow Road returns in the Legend of Zelda × Mario Kart 8 DLC Pack of Mario Kart 8, appearing as the second course of the Triforce Cup. As a result, a Rainbow Road course is not the last race of a cup for the only time so far.
The track's layout is similar to its appearance in Mario Kart 7. The course has seen extensive graphical improvements, is now significantly wider and larger, and has banked turns, most notably the third inclined U-turn. The tiles are based on their coloration from Super Mario Kart, though their color pattern is reversed, they are now flashing LED lights like the ones on N64 Rainbow Road, and there are eight different colors of tiles instead of seven from its previous appearances (adding cyan between teal and blue); the tiles the Star Thwomps land on are now white, and the tiles at the edges of the track now have borders on the outer edges. The forked road is also altered further, with the narrow part of the hole's end filled in, and the ramp in front reverted to the same height as the equivalent bumps from Super Mario Kart.
The Star Thwomps now have sparkles, a mosaic-like appearance, horizontal rainbow lines running from bottom to top of them. They also use the species' Super Mario Galaxy  appearance, like the other Thwomps in Mario Kart 8, rather than their spiked New Super Mario Bros. Wii design in Mario Kart 7. Additionally, all of the Star Thwomps are bigger except for the last pair. When they start to crash down, they will create rainbow waves above them. Also, when they land, they make metallic glistening sounds. The waves on the track they create are now bigger, move more quickly, and disappear faster, making tricks more difficult to perform.
The course now takes place in a cloudy night sky with the full moon visible, which has color-changing hills that stick above them, and is closer to the ground than previous appearances. It is also above a lake underneath, and has lots of scenery, such as Toad Houses resued from SNES Donut Plains 3. The starting banner was also redesigned, with colored blocks with a Star on top of it and the Mario Kart logo's letters now individually colored (red, green, yellow, and blue) instead of having a rainbow gradient through the entire logo; the banner is wider no longer sits on the course, and stands on two walled areas, making the start the only walled part of the course. Also, when a player approaches a turn, two green arrow holograms will appear behind the turn, and indicate in which direction the player must drive. Once the player has made the turn, the arrows will disappear.
In Mario Kart 8, this is one of the only two courses that do not have any Dash Panels, Glide Ramps, underwater sections, or anti-gravity sections, the other being GCN Yoshi Circuit, another course from DLC Pack 1. However, in Mario Kart 8 Deluxe, it is the only one of the five Rainbow Road race courses present in the game to not have anti-gravity. It is also the only Super Mario Kart race course not to have the number 3 in its name.
The body of water underneath the course is shaped identically to the one in SNES Donut Plains 3, with all course elements, the walls, and the fortress being removed. The reason for this is unclear.

This iteration of Rainbow Road reappears in Mario Kart Tour starting with the Tokyo Tour. It mostly takes on the appearance of its Mario Kart 7 iteration. However, the arrow signs and Star Thwomps from the Mario Kart 8 rendition are used over their Mario Kart 7 versions, and red tiling was added to the course; also, the tiles are more colorful, like with the Mario Kart 8 rendition of the course. The ramp at the second U-turn is absent, the hole in the road is smaller than it was before (the narrow part at the end is only one tile long, and the hole in general is 7 tiles shorter), and the last two Star Thwomps are further apart. The track edges are rounded rather than squared, and the track itself is of a thicker shape. The track reuses the arrangement heard in Mario Kart 7; this is unlike most other classic courses, which usually retained their original music. The starting banner is now colored red as opposed to pink. The background is based on its appearance from Mario Kart 7, albeit with meteors added as background scenery and the blue tint from Super Mario Kart being readded, except more detailed, taking up the entire screen, and with purple colored details added. The Thwomps also retain their shaking effect from Mario Kart 8, rather than the one Mario Kart 7.
The course also appears as Rainbow Road R (reversed), Rainbow Road T (with ramps), and Rainbow Road R/T (reversed with ramps). The latter was later added in the 2019 Winter Tour. In the R and R/T variants, the first straightaway racers encounter is missing and they instead use a glide ramp to get across. In the T variant, all Star Thwomps are removed and the road is constantly wavy. In the R/T variant, there are star rings as well as a mushroom trampoline.
This Rainbow Road received two remixed versions, titled RMX Rainbow Road 1 and RMX Rainbow Road 2, first appearing in the Super Mario Kart Tour and New Year's 2021 Tour, respectively.
If the beta test is included, this course is one of the two courses to appear as a Coin Rush course four separate times, with the other being N64 Royal Raceway.

For this course's tour appearances, see List of SNES Rainbow Road tour appearances in Mario Kart Tour.

Select "show" to reveal the drivers, karts, and gliders for which SNES Rainbow Road and its variants are always favored or favorite courses. For instances in which additional drivers, karts, and gliders temporarily had this course and its variants as favored or favorite courses, see List of SNES Rainbow Road tour appearances in Mario Kart Tour.

In WarioWare Gold, Rainbow Road appears as the setting of the Super Mario Kart microgame.
While the course does not appear in the film itself, a rendition of its music plays in The Super Mario Bros. Movie when Mario, Princess Peach, Toad and the Kongs land on a Rainbow Road during their drive to Bowser's Castle.

"I love this tune, so I was really nervous when rearranging, as I didn't want to spoil it. This is the third time this has appeared as a classic course, so I wanted to make it as bright and sparkly as possible. I went all-out and used a cutting edge digital synth sound."