Mario Circuit 3 is the fifth and final course of the Flower Cup in Super Mario Kart. It is a tarmac circuit set in a grassland.
It reappears in Mario Kart: Super Circuit as the second course of the Extra Lightning Cup, Mario Kart Wii as the first course of the Lightning Cup, Mario Kart Tour starting from the 2019 Paris Tour, and the Booster Course Pass of Mario Kart 8 Deluxe as the second course of the Turnip Cup. Mario Circuit 3 was the first course coded into Super Mario Kart. If one counts Mario Kart 8 and Mario Kart 8 Deluxe as the same game, Mario Circuit 3 is tied with Rainbow Road, also from Super Mario Kart, for the most frequently appearing classic course in the series, having a total of five individual appearances.

Mario Circuit 3 is a long, almost symmetrical track with many twists and turns (even bearing a faint resemblance to both the Sepang International Circuit, located in Malaysia and Circuito de Jerez, located in Spain), and its obstacles include pipes and oil slicks scattered throughout the track. The course begins with the only set of ? Panels followed by a right turn and a left turn. Racers then take a gradual U-turn to the right and drive along a brief straightaway before reaching a sharp U-turn to the left. Afterwards there is another brief straightaway followed by another gradual right U-turn. There is then a right turn, a left turn, and a right turn which leads racers to the finish line shortly after. At the end of the last turn is a zipper on the right side of the track.

A notable shortcut can be found after the second gradual right U-turn. Instead of taking the subsequent right turn, the player can use a Mushroom or Star to drive through the off-road to the left of the track, passing through a gap in the wall and cutting off the last left turn.

Mario Circuit 3 appeared in Mario Kart: Super Circuit, and is the second race of the Extra Lightning Cup. It uses the background from that game's own Mario Circuit. The pipes and oil hazards were removed from the track, along with the zipper, and an extra item box can be found on the straight shortly after the sharp turn.

The sharp bend can be used to perform a Mini-Turbo by drifting and holding it for a second or more.

SNES Mario Circuit 3 reappears in Mario Kart Wii as the first course of the Lightning Cup where it remains mostly unchanged, aside from getting a new starting banner like the other SNES and GBA courses that reappear in the game, and receiving a graphical update and slightly larger scale overall. The sharp turn is wider. It is one of two courses in the game where players cannot perform tricks, the other being N64 DK's Jungle Parkway.

September 2008's second tournament required players to collect 40 coins scattered along the track. Immediately after starting, players are able to hit a lone Item Box which will contain Triple Mushrooms. Vehicles were restricted to karts only. The tournament was later repeated as the second tournament of February 2012 and the first tournament of May 2013, without vehicle restrictions.

Mario Circuit 3 returns in Mario Kart Tour, starting from the 2019 Paris Tour alongside Paris Promenade. The layout is mostly identical from its previous iterations, although using the visuals of the two other SNES Mario Circuits present in the game. The most noticeable change is the Dash Panel behind the starting line being changed to the current Dash Panel design. Some of the wall blocks inside the sharp turn are removed. Additionally, the course uses the Mario Kart 7 arrangement of the SNES Mario Circuit music used in SNES Mario Circuit 2.
The course also appears as Mario Circuit 3R (reversed), Mario Circuit 3T (with ramps), and Mario Circuit 3R/T (reversed with ramps). The former two were introduced alongside the regular version in the 2019 Paris Tour, while the latter was added in the Vancouver Tour. In the T variant, a glide ramp allows all players to take the shortcut at the end of the track. In the R/T variant, there is a Chain Chomp near the aforementioned shortcut, and a glide ramp instead appears just before the hairpin turn.

For this course's tour appearances, see List of SNES Mario Circuit 3 tour appearances in Mario Kart Tour.

Select "show" to reveal the drivers, karts, and gliders for which SNES Mario Circuit 3 and its variants are always favored or favorite courses. For instances in which additional drivers, karts, and gliders temporarily had this course and its variants as favored or favorite courses, see List of SNES Mario Circuit 3 tour appearances in Mario Kart Tour.

SNES Mario Circuit 3 returns as the second course of the Turnip Cup in the Booster Course Pass DLC for Mario Kart 8 Deluxe. This course and SNES Bowser Castle 3 are the only courses from Super Mario Kart to appear in the Booster Course Pass. It is based on its appearance in Mario Kart Tour, though with updated graphics, with the sand becoming a dark yellow color and the background hills reverting to their more saturated, lime green color scheme from the original Super Mario Kart. Floating Brick Blocks, staircases, pipes with Piranha Plants, and flagpoles have been added in the background as decoration, and Toads, Yoshis and Shy Guys have been added as spectators. Traffic cones also now appear in front of the oil slicks. The music is slightly rearranged, with the drum-line being dramatically altered, but retains its SNES-styled sound. Due to the lighting on the course, some vehicles appear golden.