Snifits are Shy Guys with an extended nozzle for a mouth on their mask, which along with the dark coloration causes it to resemble a gas mask. Through their protrusion, they can fire projectiles, most commonly small, metallic bullets. Though Snifits first originated in Yume Kōjō: Doki Doki Panic, they became a part of the Super Mario franchise when the game released internationally as Super Mario Bros. 2. Snifits usually wear red robes, but they have also worn pink, gray, green, blue, black, purple, yellow, and orange.

In Yume Kōjō: Doki Doki Panic and Super Mario Bros. 2, Snifits (shown here to be affiliated with the 8 bits) are less common than their Shyguy relatives and come in different colors. There is only one red Snifit, found in World 3-3; this trait is changed in many later appearances, where most Snifits are red. The red Snifit acts similar to a red Shyguy, walking off ledges it comes to but occasionally firing bullets made from nightmares. Pink Snifits are the most common and act the same as the red ones except that they turn when they reach a ledge. Gray and green Snifits stand in place and occasionally jump while firing.

The identical behavior of the gray and green Snifits is due to the fact that they are actually the same coded object, with the color variation being due to their palette having different colors assigned to it in different areas to affect other objects. This in turn is due to the Family Computer allowing for only four palettes at a time on that graphic layer, with the fourth being the player character's. Another side effect is the Snifits' hoods appearing to lack part of their outline in the back in one frame and appearing non-pointed in the other, as the mouthpiece takes up extra space in the 16x16 pixel tiles.
In Super Mario All-Stars and Super Mario Advance, the pink Snifits are blue and the green ones are gray, the latter of which is due to the green and gray objects no longer needing to share a palette. Unlike Shyguys in these versions, Snifits all wear tan shoes in-game, though due to the shading on their mouthpieces, this may be intended to be a shaded white, like in the original. They also have a lighter outline on their robes than Shyguys, at the cost of having less shading on them. Their sprite in the roulette bonus game depicts their shoes colored in a brown hue.

In Super Mario 64 or Super Mario 64 DS, a ghost-like variation of Snifit appears, which is inconsistently depicted as either an atypical depiction of Snifits or a close relative.

 

Snifits make several appearances in The Super Mario Bros. Super Show!, where they are most often portrayed as the minions of King Koopa and as shock troops of the Koopa Pack. In the episode "The Unzappables," Snifits are used in a manner similar to handheld machine guns. In the episode "On Her Majesty's Sewer Service," a Snifit shoots Bullet Bill-like projectiles towards the Mario Bros.
Snifits are featured in the following episodes:

Snifits are featured in several issues of the Nintendo Comics System, where they appeared to be high-ranking minions of Bowser, as they are shown to command and train his Shyguy troops. One particular unnamed Snifit is featured prominently in the Nintendo Comics System issue "Duh Stoopid Bomb!" where the Snifit, after accidentally becoming super-intelligent after being caught in the explosion of a Smart Bomb, usurps Bowser of his armies; however, since they are all still under the effect of the Stupid Bombs, he is unable to command them efficiently.

In Nintendo Power's Super Mario Adventures comic serial, a Snifit can be seen among the attendees to Bowser's forced wedding to Princess Toadstool.

Snifits in the 1993 Super Mario Bros. film are depicted as mask-wearing garbage collector workers, and bear some resemblance to the Fungus Unit featured earlier in the film. As they are always depicted with their masks and suits on, it is never made clear as to their appearance or species but they are not shown to be able to properly speak, instead communicating through dinosaur-type creature noises. They work collecting and transporting trash in and out of the Dinohattan city with their Sludge Gulper trucks.
When they are out in the Koopahari Desert, Mario, Luigi, Iggy and Spike come to a junk yard with Snifit workers. They knock out some workers with the brothers' plungers and overtake their Sludge Gulper. All four of them put on Snifit masks to blend in and successfully leave the junk yard without the other Snifits noticing. Later in the film, a Snifit briefly appears driving the Sludge Gulper that transports Mario and Luigi to the entrance of Koopa's Tower after their Boom Boom Bar escape.

An army of Snifits appears in volume 8 of Super Mario-kun. They attack Mario, Luigi, and Yoshi, but Mario catches them off guard by dressing as Chef Mario from Yoshi's Cookie and then using assets from the game.

Snifits are uncommon enemies in Super Mario World 2: Yoshi's Island, appearing in Marching Milde's Fort, The Deep, Underground Maze, and KEEP MOVING!!!!. Snifits walk around and sometimes change their direction towards Yoshi, whom they attack by shooting oval-shaped projectiles at. A Snifit can be defeated from either being jumped on, eaten, or hit with an egg. Snifits are noticeably larger than regular Shy-Guys, and all wear salmon-pink robes and dark-purple shoes. An unused graphic depicts a body for a red-robed Snifit at 16x16 pixels drawn in a similar manner to Toadies in the final; pre-release builds show they originally had Kamek's Toadies' role and propellers.

In Yoshi's Island DS, Snifits do not appear, but a species derivative of Snifits called Scorchits appear. These enemies blow fires out of their mouths which can melt ice.

Snifits are enemies in Yoshi's New Island. They are roughly the same size as regular Shy Guys. They first appear in Heads Up, Hop Up, where they shoot in one spot without moving and walk back and forth. A simple stomp or eating them can defeat them.

In Super Mario RPG: Legend of the Seven Stars and its remake, Snifits, originally referred to as Spookums, wear blue robes and are only found in Booster Tower, being among the few enemies that disappear for the rest of the game after being defeated. In the remake, their blue robes now match their modern design first seen in Paper Mario: Color Splash.
In battle, a Snifit attacks by hitting a party member with its mouth. It can also attack with Hot Shot and Crystal, or use Gunk Ball to mute a party member. When a Snifit is attacked using Terrorize, it automatically runs away from battle.
Black-robed Snifits known as Snifsters also appear, mostly as an organization working for Booster. Five Snifits aspire to become a member of Booster's Snifsters and individually train in Booster Pass as an Apprentice. If they defeat Mario, the first four will become full-fledged Snifsters, while the last will be rejected for arbitrary reasons. In the original localization, they are simply referred to as Snifits.

No normal Snifits appear in Mario Party 2. However, the Space Land board contains an organization called the Snifit Patrol, though the only member of it seen is of the Super Mario 64 depiction.

Snifits appear in Mario Party 3 as the starting partner of Princess Daisy in the game's Duel Mode. It has an attack power of 2, a stamina stat of 2, and a salary of 5 coins per turn. It sometimes finds 2-4 coins at the start of its player's turn, effectively reducing its salary.

In Mario Party Advance, Snifit appears in the Shroom City mode. According to his description, he's a fan of being scared. He is found on the second floor of the Horror Condo, and when approached, he asks for the player's and Mr. E's help. If accepted, he explains that, despite the rumors about the Condo, he has not seen a single ghost since he's arrived. He then asks them to bring a ghost to his apartment, and says that he would do it himself, but there's been some problems between him and the ghosts. After reminding the ghosts to haunt the Condo, they start appearing in Snifit's room, leading to Mr. E running away in fear. Snifit gladly thanks the player and gives them the Porta-Gust Gaddget. The ending credits state that, despite Snifit's initial excitement, he has grown tired of seeing the ghosts.

In Mario Party Superstars, the Snifit Patrol returns along with the Space Land board, this time run by normal-looking Snifits.

Snifits reappear in Super Mario Party Jamboree, with a blue Snifit running a shop in Rainbow Galleria.

Snifits make a few minor cameos in the Mario Kart games. In Mario Kart: Super Circuit, they make a cameo appearance in the Sunset Wilds course, where their likenesses are carved on two totem poles featuring a Toady on the bottom, it in the middle, and a Shy Guy on the top. In the Mario Kart Tour iteration of the course, the totem poles are replaced by more cacti. Their next appearance in the series is Mario Kart: Double Dash!!, where they make another cameo as characters in the audience of Waluigi Stadium. However, they were removed from the course in Mario Kart Wii, due to using the same audience animation from the other courses.

In the Mario & Luigi series, Snifit derivatives are common. Laser Snifits (actually Woohoo Hooniversity's transformed Beanish professors), Spiky Snifits, Ice Snifits, and Gunner Guys appear in Mario & Luigi: Superstar Saga and its remake.

In Mario & Luigi: Partners in Time, a Snifit derivative called Snifaro appears in Gritzy Caves. Snifaro is a Snifit pharaoh in a sarcophagus that is standing atop an ordinary Snifit, which is revealed when they open it up to shoot bullets. If the player uses a Bros. Flower on one, the sarcophagus burns up, resulting in the Snifit fleeing and the Snifaro remaining to fight on its own.

In Mario & Luigi: Bowser's Inside Story and its remake, Snifits only appear during enemy battles with a derivative species of flower-like Snifits called Flifits, and Flifits' younger form Sneeds. When Flifits lose their petals, a Flying Snifit appears to pour some water on them and heal them.

Even though Snifits do not appear physically in Mario & Luigi: Paper Jam, its name sometimes appears as a wrong answer for identifying a certain enemy in the Toad quizzes.

Snifits appear with a toy-like design in the Mario vs. Donkey Kong series. Unlike Shy Guys, they do not wander freely on land. Instead, they stand in one place, wind up with a noise, then shoot five bullets, slightly recoiling backward with each shot; after a moment, they return to where they were standing and repeat their routine. Bullets fired from Snifits cannot pass through any solid object, but can destroy Minis upon contact.
In the Nintendo Switch remake of the original Mario vs. Donkey Kong game, the Fire Shy Guy enemies are redesigned to look like Snifits.

In Mario vs. Donkey Kong 2: March of the Minis, Snifits appear in Jungle Hijinks. Exclusively in this game, the player can manually make a Mini jump onto a Snifit's head to ride on top of it.

In Mario vs. Donkey Kong: Minis March Again!, Snifits are first encountered in Room 4-4 of Jungle Rumble. Their actions are slightly slower, and they have spikes on their head, indicating that a Mini will break if it tries to jump on a Snifit.

In Mario vs. Donkey Kong: Mini-Land Mayhem!, Snifits are found in Cannon Cove and Secret Storage. They move more quickly than their previous appearances, and they no longer have spikes on their head; however, in this game, a Mini still breaks if it lands on top of a Snifit.

Normal Snifits do not appear in Yoshi Touch & Go, being replaced by Propeller Mūcho that are based on Fly Guys.

Snifits make their Paper Mario debut in Paper Mario: Sticker Star. Snifits are first present in World 3, where they are the most common enemy found, an optional foe, and they are under the direct command of Bowser. For example, one Snifit is seen in The Bafflewood. It can be seen walking back and forth. There is also one Snifit hiding in the bushes trying to make the player not notice it. Snifits can be encountered on land or in poisonous water, which they are implied to enjoy. Snifits also appear in Bowser's Snow Fort alongside Shy Guys. They can be found in the trash area of Shy Guy Jungle before the player uses the goat or vacuum Things. Mario may pull one out and battle it.
A game show called Snifit or Whiffit is hosted by a Snifit who goes by the said name. Mario must participate in this game in order to obtain a Wiggler Segment, which is necessary for progress. If Mario completes the three challenges, Snifit asks him to participate in another one, which combines the first two challenges. If Mario wins this final challenge, he is awarded the Radiator Thing (Coins if he returns and has already collected the Radiator).
In battle, Snifits have many attacks: they can either spit out one bullet at Mario or a barrage of three. If Mario uses a Tail or any other sticker that includes a Spike Helmet, a Frog Suit or a Super Boot, the Snifits may attempt to push Mario much like the Clip Guy's and Paint Guy's attack when they try to clip or paint Mario. If successful, Mario loses the sticker. If Mario is able to attack multiple times via the Battle Spin, a Snifit may also knock away one of Mario's attacks. Snifits are mostly assisted by Ninjis, Clip Guys, Shy Guys, Piranha Plants, and Poison Bloopers, but they can also be assisted by Scuttlebugs and Goombas; some Snifits fight alone.
In its artwork, they are wearing brown bandannas and dark red robes while in-game they are wearing yellow bandannas and light red robes.

Snifits return in Paper Mario: Color Splash as enemies and NPCs. Like in Sticker Star, Snifits attack in battle by spitting a bullet at Mario, sometimes three consecutively.
In this game, Snifits are often shown as Shy Guys' superiors. A pink Snifit is the leader of the Shai Guyz in the Golden Coliseum. A red Snifit commands a group of Shy Guy 5-Stacks in Fort Cobalt, while other Snifits coach Shy Guys in the exercise room. Snifits can also be found at Plum Park, where they are able to freely walk in the poisoned water. Two Snifits also appear sitting at a table, discussing their preferences of coffee over tea. Eight red Snifits are riding a train car of the Sunset Express, threatening the red Rescue Squad members.
In Redpepper Volcano, a blue Snifit advises a Fire Bro on throwing fireballs. When Mario defeats them all, he is disappointed and plans to train a new squad. An Ice Bro appears, asking to be on the team, and throws an iceball that fails to hit Mario. The blue Snifit is unimpressed and rejects him. In Redpepper Crater, Snifits are among the enemies in one of the spas. Two friendly Snifits also appear in this level, one near the Mini Paint Star and the other before a series of moving platforms.
Snifits prominently appear in the Mustard Café. Outside the café, various Snifits wait in line and order coffee once the restaurant re-opens. When Mario and the Mustard Café chef fall into the sinkhole, before they can reach the exits, they are grabbed by Snifits and pulled into the Snifit Undersand Hideout. The chef is shown trying to bribe a Snifit to let him escape but is denied. This area contains various Snifit-themed posters and a group of Snifits ambush Mario as he attempts to collect the Snifit's Card Key.
Snifit or Whiffit returns from Sticker Star, this time taking place in Cobalt Base. Host Snifit introduces the game once again, while a new Informant Snifit sells Mario cards he needs to play the game. Two pink Snifits reward Mario with the Instant Camera if he wins the bonus round. Additionally, a Snifit is the third-round opponent in Roshambo Temple #6.
Multiple variants of Snifit are introduced in this game. Slurp Snifits are parallels to Slurp Guys, appearing in areas such as Toad Trainworks and Mustard Café. In addition to spitting bullets, they may absorb Mario's paint. Spike Snifits wear helmets that protect them from jump attacks, similarly to Spike Guys. Whistle Snifits can summon enemies during battle. A Chariot Snifit assists Iggy Koopa in the Golden Coliseum. In addition, blue, green, and pink Snifits’ robes are now the same as the Shy Guys' modern robe designs, while yellow Snifits make their debut.

Snifits reappear in Paper Mario: The Origami King, where red, blue, green, pink, and yellow Snifits can be found in Shroom City as one of the main inhabitants. Prior to defeating Hole Punch, they take over the aforementioned city, renaming it into "Snif City". Several Snifits also appear in Toad Town, where a yellow one temporarily runs a confetti sale, and another temporarily runs the outdoor café. Snifits also run the shops in Shangri-Spa. On Club Island, Mario can find a Snifit stuck in a tree, who offers to recharge his Toad Radar for 1,000 coins.
Additionally, origami Snifits appear in the game as enemies. In battle, they can call reinforcements if the amount of enemies in the battle dwindles. A Paper Macho Snifit Outlaw also appears as part of the Big Sho' Theater, which Mario must defeat in a Western-style duel.

Snifits return in Yoshi's Woolly World shooting hexagonal nuts at Yoshi. They can be defeated in the same way as previous games. They appear in Feel Fuzzy, Get Clingy and King Bowser's Castle. The derived species of Ice Snifits also appears earlier on snow/ice levels. The boss of World 5 is a large Snifit, named Snifberg the Unfeeling. If a normal Snifit is eaten by Yoshi, it will turn into an orange yarn ball.

Several Snifits appear in Illumination's The Super Mario Bros. Movie, with one notable Snifit shown to have captured Luigi alongside two Shy Guys, in the Dark Lands and later on bringing him to Bowser. Unlike the Shy Guys, which are still voiced by Nate Bihldorff via archival recordings, this notable Snifit is given a speaking role, though its voice actor is unknown. More are seen infrequently, such as during Bowser's wedding to Princess Peach and before Bowser addresses his army about his plans.

Much like Shy Guys, Snifits come in many different colors. The following is a list of all known Snifits and their first appearances.