Snifsters (originally known as Snifits) are characters in Super Mario RPG: Legend of the Seven Stars and its Nintendo Switch remake, dark-robed Snifits who serve as both minions and playpals to Booster. The three primary Snifsters are aptly named Snifster No. 1 (originally Snifit 1 or No.1), Snifster No. 2 (originally Snifit 2 or No.2), and Snifster No. 3 (originally Snifit 3).
The Snifsters first meet Mario after Dyna and Mite are returned to their home in Moleville, seen hunting beetles for Booster, accidentally revealing to Mario that a "princess from the sky" is being imprisoned in Booster Tower in the process.
Later, in Booster Tower, Mario, Mallow, Geno, and Bowser can battle the three Snifsters. Initially, each of them can be encountered individually. After entering Booster's playroom, Mario must attempt to hide from the Snifsters behind curtains as they search for Booster's lost Mario doll. If Mario is found behind these curtains three times by a Snifster, he is forced to battle Booster and the Snifster trio. If he remains hidden, Booster eventually joins in and finds his Mario doll. However, because it is too high for him, he is convinced by Snifster No. 2 to guilt Mario into knocking it down, subsequently rewarding him with Booster's Charm.
On Booster Hill, the three Snifsters attempt to ram Mario as he races up the hillside after Booster and Princess Peach. Mario can jump on the head of a charging Snifster or a rolling barrel to get a boost and reach Peach, who rewards him with a Flower each time just before he is knocked back by Booster.
Subsequently, in Marrymore, after Booster barges into the wedding hall, interrupting the wedding of Raz and Raini, the three Snifsters act as guards, ensuring no one interrupts Booster's forced wedding to Princess Peach. After breaking into the wedding hall, the Snifsters learn that Princess Peach has lost her accessories, begin to search for them, and rely on Mario to bring the accessories they found to Princess Peach.
At the end of the battle against the cake's bottom layer, Raspberry, the Snifsters and Booster appear. Ultimately, the Snifsters inadvertently destroy Raspberry after they convince Booster to devour the cake whole.
An unnamed Snifster possibly affiliated with Booster can later be seen in Seaside Town, acting as the manager of Beetles Are Us. Some Snifsters, known as Apprentices, train on a hidden obstacle course at Booster Pass, which can be unveiled by jumping on a green switch in Booster Tower. Apprentices can be promoted to Snifster No. 4, Snifster No. 5, Snifster No. 6, and Snifster No. 7 if Mario and his team are defeated by them, as opposed to a Game Over. The fifth Apprentice cannot be promoted due to Booster only wanting seven Snifsters. However, eight Snifsters make a small cameo in the ending, composing the audience of Booster's wedding to Valentina, though it is unknown if the eighth Snifster is the shop manager or not.
Snifsters are among the few enemies in the game that can be permanently removed from the map; Booster's Snifsters can no longer be challenged after Booster Tower is cleared, Snifsters disappear permanently if they are defeated, and there are no more Apprentices at Booster Pass after the eighth one.
Despite their loyalty to Booster, they were apparently not very fond of the jobs he gave them, as implied by their thought.