The Snow Kingdom is a region featured in Super Mario Odyssey, and can either be the ninth or tenth location visited, depending on if the player selects to go here or to the Seaside Kingdom after leaving the Metro Kingdom. It is the greater location of Shiveria, a snowy area containing a small town under the surface. When Mario first visits this kingdom, there is a blizzard occurring outside the town area, and the entrance to the Bound Bowl Grand Prix race area is blocked off by four barriers. Mario must help the Shiverians open the entrance to the race area by collecting the four Power Moons located in the rooms around the race area's entrance. Once Mario collects all four of these Power Moons, the race area opens up, allowing Mario and the Shiverians to enter. Upon entering the race area, the player discovers that one of the racers is still in the waiting room. Mario goes to find the racer and captures him, allowing the player themselves to participate in the Bound Bowl Grand Prix race. If Mario successfully gets first place in the race, he will receive a Multi Moon, which (when collected) restores the Snow Kingdom to its former glory, getting rid of the blizzard outside the town, allowing the Shiverians to race on their race course peacefully and granting access to more Power Moons. Once Mario collects enough Power Moons, he can access the next kingdom - either the Seaside Kingdom (if the player has not visited it yet) or the Luncheon Kingdom (if both the Seaside and Snow Kingdoms have been visited). The Snow Kingdom is also full of freezing water, and while Mario can swim in it, he will lose health if he stays in it for too long.
This location is based off of Russia, specifically the icy cold areas of Siberia. This is evidenced by the name (Shiveria), the nesting dolls on sale at the local Crazy Cap, and by the locals performing the Hopak. The town of Shiveria also seems to draw inspiration from Scandinavia, as the locals here resemble harp seals in knitwear and live in wooden Scandinavian-style housing.

A Frozen Land
The Snow Kingdom is a world of ice and snow that freezes the body but dazzles the eyes. Stay alert, though—one bad step can drop you into the dangerously frigid sea. Despite the cold, the town of Shiveria is famous for its warm hospitality, and on clear days, the view can't be matched.

A Warm Community
Shiveria is a huge excavated settlement beneath the ice. It's warmer here than up above, but you'll want to bundle up all the same.
Despite the cold, the cheerful Shiverians will thaw any traveller's frozen heart. And if you visit the center square, you'll see the fiery passion the Shiverians have for their traditional races. Take one look at the screens showing the action, and you'll be caught up in the excitement too!

Bound Bowl Grand Prix
THE sporting event is the Bound Bowl Grand Prix. Only Shiverians are allowed to participate, but when you watch a race, you'll understand why no one else COULD participate. Only Shiverian sturdiness could survive a race based on bounding violently through the course and crashing into one another. Be sure to see it if you get a chance!

Icing and Racing
Beyond racing, Shiverians are known for elaborate baked goods. Especially renowned is the Frost-Frosted Cake, which is very popular at weddings. By tradition, only the Shiverian Elder is allowed to make this extraordinary confection. What's more, they are specifically created as the grand prize for the Bound Bowl Grand Prix, so the only way to get one is to convince the winner to let you have it.

Crevasse Menace
Lurking in the local crevasses you may find a Bitefrost. These creatures move through the ice under their prey, then thrust upward, chomping. Caution (and jumping ability) is advised.

Some Animals Brave the Cold
When the weather is clear, you might spot a few animals making the best of the cold. Be sure to keep an eye out!

Three Keys to the Kingdom

Swim only in short bursts if you like being warm enough to stay alive.
Dig for the gate to the town, which is frequently buried in the snow.
Bound your way through a race (build and species permitting).

Map

The Odyssey lands on a clifftop in the southwest corner of the kingdom. Hint Toad and Uncle amiibo are nearby. After activating the Moon Rock, a Power Moon can be found floating next to the Odyssey.

This Checkpoint Flag is next to the hole that leads to Shiveria Town. In the area surrounding the hole is a frozen seed and Ty-foo guarding a Moon Shard. Mario can climb up the ledges of an ice pillar and jump to the one on the other side to find a Power Moon buried beneath it.

This Checkpoint Flag is on the northeast corner of the kingdom in next to the door that leads to the Koopa Trace-Walking minigame. Iceburn Circuit is nearby, but cannot be entered until the Moon Rock is activated.

Southwest of the Odyssey's landing site is a small snowy platform jutting out of the cliffside where a treasure chest containing Power Moon #33, "Secret Path to Shiveria!", can be found. It can be accessed via a painting leading to the Snow Kingdom. Where the painting is found depends on what order the kingdoms are visited in. If the player visits the Snow Kingdom before the Seaside Kingdom, then the painting can be found between some trees near the Odyssey in the Mushroom Kingdom. If the player visits the Snow Kingdom after the Seaside Kingdom, then the painting can be found behind the left building at the Main Courtyard Entrance in Bowser's Kingdom. Though the clifftop is intended to only be accessible via painting or Checkpoint Flag, it is possible to reach it by jumping from the roof of the Odyssey using a specific sequence of movements.

Enemies marked with an asterisk (*) are only found in bonus areas.

The Cake Thief's Parting Gift: The goal is to open all four barriers blocking the entrance to the Snowline Circuit, along with defeating Rango.
The Bound Bowl Grand Prix: The goal is to rank first place in the Snowline Circuit Bound Bowl Grand Prix.

There are two paintings in this kingdom. One can be accessed by capturing a Ty-foo and taking it to where a wood piece is. With the Ty-foo, the wood piece must be blown up until it touches a snow wall. Then, Mario must un-capture it and go to the painting. It takes the player either to the Iron Cage at the Wooded Kingdom, the Island in the Sky at the Cascade Kingdom, or the Viewing Balcony in the Lake Kingdom. It can only be accessed after collecting the The Bound Bowl Grand Prix Multi Moon.
The other painting can only be accessed, by normal means, from a painting in either Bowser's Kingdom or the Mushroom Kingdom.

There are a total of 57 Power Moons (54 regular Power Moons and 1 Multi Moon) in the Snow Kingdom. During the player's first visit to this kingdom, they can collect 32 Power Moons and the Multi Moon, including one from the kingdom's Hint Art. The player can also collect a Power Moon if they travel to this kingdom using a painting found in a future kingdom (either the Mushroom or Bowser's Kingdom). After the player defeats Bowser in the Moon Kingdom, 3 more Power Moons become available to collect. The Moon Rock will also be available to destroy, causing 18 additional Power Moons to be accessible.
In order to progress to the next kingdom, the player must collect at least 10 Power Moons.

The Snow Kingdom contains 50 regional coins, which take the form of snowflakes.