Speardovich, originally known as Yaridovich, is a commander of the Smithy Gang in Super Mario RPG: Legend of the Seven Stars and the remake, and a master of disguise. He is a shape-shifting robot that is also able to split into multiple copies of himself. However, Speardovich cannot change colors, and as such, any form he takes exists in shades of gray and red. In his true form, Speardovich resembles a spear. Speardovich is shown to be arrogant, boasting about his superiority and high status within Smithy's forces. He also implies that he tends to appeal to his superiors' ego to get ahead.
Speardovich is charged with acquiring the fifth Star Piece. To trick Mario, Speardovich kidnaps the population of Seaside Town and imprisons them in a large building, then impersonates them all with his shape-shifting and duplication powers. When Mario arrives in the town, Speardovich, in his disguise as the Town Elder, asks the hero to retrieve the Star Piece for him.
When Mario returns with the Star Piece, Speardovich, with several of his duplicates, reveals that he is a member of the Smithy Gang and asks that Mario turn over the Star Piece to him; for every time he refuses, he sends his doubles to tickle the Town Elder with a feather until Mario agrees. After he hands it over, Speardovich and the clones run off to return to Smithy.
At the coast, Speardovich is waiting for the Blade to show up when Mario arrives, and when the group tries to swim away, Johnny appears and blocks their path. With nowhere to run, Speardovich assumes his true form and battles Mario and his allies. After he is defeated, Mario obtains the Star Piece, as well as the Shed Key that unlocks the building trapping Seaside Town's true inhabitants.
Speardovich returns as a Machine Made, a gray, mass-produced copy of the original. Interestingly, it can split into four Machine Made Drill Bits with the Multiplier move. Although not to the degree of Claymorton's Machine Made version, Speardovich is implied in the remake to retain memories of the original due to insisting he not lose "this time."
Speardovich can be seen in the parade during the end credits, along with Claymorton and Bowyer, in which all three are pounded by Smithy's hammer.

Speardovich always starts his battle using Water Blast. This is followed by using Water Blast, Flame Stone, or Will-O-Wisp for two turns, after which Speardovich will use Mirage Attack to create a duplicate of himself.
While duplicated, Speardovich instead uses physical attacks, such as attaching his head to the tip of his spear, and using it to hit a party member. He can also use Pierce, or shoot a small glowing orb. The duplicate mostly uses regular physical attacks, but may also use Meteor Blast, Static Electricity, or Bolt. After the duplicate attacks twice, it merges back to Speardovich, and the pattern restarts.
Speardovich's attack and defense are the highest of any story-related boss encounter in the game. He is, however, weak to Thunder. The duplicate is identical to the original in appearance and is also simply known as "Speardovich", but it has a different thought, different attacks, and lower stats and HP. When the duplicate has lost all of its 500 HP or after a few turns pass, it merges back with the original Speardovich. These duplicates are the only bosses besides Exor that Geno Whirl can do 9999 damage to.