Speed Skating 500m is a Speed Skating Event that appears in the Wii version of Mario & Sonic at the Olympic Winter Games. The objective of the event is to complete one lap of the rink in the fastest time, with the event taking place at the Richmond Olympic Oval. The starting Olympic record for this event is held by Sonic with a time of 0:34.420. Toad and Espio appear as referees in this event. 

In this event, the player directly competes against one opponent, and their time is used to decide their final placement against the other characters in the event. To start the event, the player must swing down when "Go!" appears on screen. If the player swings the Wii Remote with perfect timing, they will perform a starting dash, however if they do so too early they will commit a foul and the event will be started over. Once the character starts skating, the player must quickly swing the Wii Remote from side to side to accelerate, with more speed being built up the faster that they swing. Once the character has accelerated, the player must then swing in time with the character's arm movements. The player must swing the Wii Remote in the same direction as the character's arms when their outward hand glows. The player receives a rating depending on their timing and a proportional speed boost, receiving no rating and a decrease in speed for particularly poorly-timed swings, a "Nice!" rating for swings performed with decent timing and maintaining speed, a small speed boost and a "Great!" rating for well-timed swings and "Perfect!" ratings and the largest speed boost or perfectly timed swings. If the player manages to successfully perform enough perfect swings in a row, they will receive an extra dash boost, which provides them a larger boost of speed. The number requires varies based on character type, with three required for Skill characters, four required for All-Around and Power characters and five for Speed characters. When the character begins the final sprint, the player must quickly swing the Wii Remote from side to side to accelerate and build up speed to finish he race. The player can also press  once during the race to perform the character's special action, which will give them a short speed boost.