Spike Traps (or spikes, sometimes Spiked Blocks, spiked platforms, spike platforms, or Spiked Floors) are harmful obstacles appearing in many games of the Super Mario franchise. Spike Traps can be stationary, retractable, or attached to a moving object. They are introduced in Super Mario Bros. 2. They function similarly to the Icicles from Mario Bros.; however, Spike Traps fall differently.

Spike Traps are very common obstacles throughout the Super Mario series. When touched, they cause the player to lose their current power-up and if the player is Small Mario, they will lose a life. Players can safely traverse across spikes when invincible without any consequences.

Spike Traps appear in a few levels in Super Mario Bros. 2. They are crossed only by riding on an Autobomb.

Spikes return in Super Mario Bros. 3. They can face in any of the cardinal directions. Spikes can be crossed harmlessly by wearing a Goomba's Shoe, but the player character still takes damage if touching one from the side or on the head. The World-e level Castle Dash of Super Mario Advance 4: Super Mario Bros. 3 has large circular spike objects that float in place, also appearing with moving ones in the Orange Mushroom House.

Spike Traps in Super Mario World can be crossed by Yoshi harmlessly. Spike Traps are on some moving stone blocks. This game also introduces the falling spike.

Spike Traps return in the You vs. Boo mode of Super Mario Bros. Deluxe. They appear in some levels and are changed to solid blocks with Face Blocks.

Spike Traps return in Super Mario Sunshine. They are encountered in Corona Mountain. Spike Traps are likely to cause Mario to lose a life if touched because Mario's invincibility frames do not react to them.

Spike Traps appear in castle and tower levels in New Super Mario Bros. Some have Spike Traps on them, like in Super Mario World.

Spikes in Super Mario Galaxy appear in three different varieties: moving lifts with spikes embedded into their sides appear in the Good Egg Galaxy missions Dino Piranha and Dino Piranha Speed Run, the Flipswitch Galaxy mission Painting the Planet Yellow, and the Toy Time Galaxy missions The Flipswitch Chain and Fast Foes of Toy Time; bergy bits covered in spikes out of ice appear in the Beach Bowl Galaxy mission Wall Jumping up Waterfalls; and spikes attached to terrain appear in the Gold Leaf Galaxy mission When It Rains, It Pours. Mario or Luigi bounces into the air, loses health, and runs uncontrollably after coming into contact with spikes attached to terrain, similarly to lava.

Spike Traps return in New Super Mario Bros. Wii. They appear in two forms: traps with each spike at one block wide like in Super Mario World, as seen in World 5-Tower, and traps with each spike half the length of a block like in Super Mario Bros. 3, as seen in World 3-Castle.

Spikes return in Super Mario Galaxy 2. They are the same as in Super Mario Galaxy. They are encountered in the Clockwork Ruins Galaxy mission Time for Adventure and the Flip-Out Galaxy missions Wicked Wall Jumps and Cosmic Clone Wall Jumpers.

Spike Bars debut in Super Mario 3D Land, operating similarly to Fire Bars. Retractable spikes on the floor appear too.

Ground spike traps appear in Super Mario 3D World and Super Mario 3D World + Bowser's Fury. They are encountered in levels such as Hands-On Hall and Spiky Spike Bridge.

Spike Traps are course elements in Super Mario Maker, its port, and Super Mario Maker 2. They are classified as block objects. Spike Traps can change appearance depending on the game style and theme; in underwater areas in the Super Mario Bros. 3 and Super Mario World game styles, they become a Jelectro or a Sea Urchin from The Legend of Zelda: Link's Awakening, respectively. Shaking a Spike Trap in the New Super Mario Bros. U ground theme plays a train sound. Spike Traps in Super Mario Maker 2 have a slightly wider hitbox and are replaced with Spike Blocks in the Super Mario 3D World style.

Spike Traps return in Super Mario Run. They look identically to the Spike Traps in the New Super Mario Bros. U style of Super Mario Maker. Spike Traps are first encountered in Shell Me the Way! when collecting the Black Coins.

Spike Traps appear in Super Mario Odyssey with their design from Super Mario 3D World design. They are encountered in Bowser's Kingdom. They can be crossed safely by capturing Jizo statues.

Spike Traps are obstacles in Super Mario Bros. Wonder. They are depicted with a few different designs. One of the designs resembles a spiked ball. The upward pointed types have two aesthetic varieties, resembling either a rock or being colored orange.

Spikes in the Yoshi's Island series instantly causes a Yoshi to lose a life, unlike with other games. The games also feature thorns, which function identically to spikes. If Yoshi touches spikes, he is shown spinning and then collapsing; not counting when Baby Mario is snatched away from Yoshi, this is only one of two ways where Yoshi's death is shown onscreen, the other being from touching lava.

Yoshi's Story features living, jumping Spikes in Bone Dragon Pit and Magma Castle.

Spikes are obstacles throughout the Mario vs. Donkey Kong series. They can defeat the playable characters instantly but not enemies, which walk across them without taking damage. Spikes bob up and down slightly. They have a variety of appearances throughout the series. They are depicted generically in Mario vs. Donkey Kong and point upward only. Spikes have a red metallic base framing them in Mario vs. Donkey Kong 2: March of the Minis. Spikes from Mario vs. Donkey Kong: Mini-Land Mayhem! onward also cover walls and ceilings. Each row of spikes in Mario vs. Donkey Kong: Tipping Stars and Mini Mario & Friends: amiibo Challenge has two additional smaller spikes on its sides, and the middle spikes appear shorter than in previous entries of the Mario vs. Donkey Kong series.

The spikes in Mario vs. Donkey Kong cover pits and platforms, and can be crossed by riding Shy Guys, Bucket Men and RamRams across a bed of spikes. Spikes in Mario vs. Donkey Kong 2: March of the Minis and Mario vs. Donkey Kong: Minis March Again! are harmless on the sides, although Minis try to jump over them and break themselves regardless. Mario and Donkey Kong: Minis on the Move has some tiles consisting of spike pits, and any Mini that reaches the edge of one tips for a short time, eventually falling into them and causing a Game Over if the path is not modified quickly enough. The spikes in Mario vs. Donkey Kong: Tipping Stars and Mini Mario & Friends: amiibo Challenge have two additional smaller spikes on its sides that destroy a Mini instantly upon contact, though the Spike Guard ability of Mini Bowser Jr. allows it to hover across safely.

A Spike Trap appears in Paper Mario: The Thousand-Year Door in Hooktail Castle. When Mario takes the Black Key out of the chest, spikes pop out of the ground to form a maze and the ceiling starts to lower down with spikes. Mario must run out of the spike maze in 50 seconds or he will receive a Game Over.
Spikes also serve as obstacles in some platforming sections, and falling into them will cause Mario to lose 1 HP, go flying off the top of the screen, and land at the start of the section.

Spike Traps appear in Paper Mario: Color Splash. Spike pits appear in levels such as Mustard Café, The Golden Coliseum, and Fortune Island. 8-bit spikes appear in Green Energy Plant. In Kiwano Temple, there are many spikes that resemble Spiny Shells. Some must be crossed by rolling platforms, and others must be flipped over with a POW Block.

Spikes are obstacles appearing in two varieties in Super Princess Peach. One type is a round, block-sized object often found in midair or on ceilings, usually on top of areas with blue Donut Blocks passable only with the Gloom vibe, and they have an animation for rotating. The other type is on the ground, having thematic differences between each world, and touching one costs Princess Peach half a heart of damage.

Spikes are hazards in the Yoshi's Fruit Cart minigame in Nintendo Land. They are first encountered in Gate 23. Spikes can be retracted by using a lever, allowing the Yoshi Cart to move on them safely, but otherwise costs the player a life when touched.

Spike Traps are hazards in Luigi's Mansion 3. They are found mainly in Castle MacFrights. Gooigi can move through Spike Traps without taking damage, unlike Luigi.

Many Spike Traps are seen in The Super Mario Bros. Movie scattered around the Training Course and attached to Brick Blocks and Empty Blocks.