The Spin Jump, also referred to as the Whirlwind Jump, is a special move that lets the player character, as the name suggests, spin while jumping. Most of the time, it reaches a different height from the standard jump, and may offer protection against enemies and obstacles that would otherwise be harmful to land on. 

The Spin Jump first appears in Super Mario World, where it is used by pressing . It can instantly defeat most stompable enemies such as Goombas and Koopa Troopas, while allowing Mario or Luigi to bounce on spiky, fiery, or hazardous enemies, such as Spinies and Chainsaws, without taking damage. While Spin Jumping, Mario or Luigi can gain height by bouncing on enemies, though not as much as a regular jump.
The Spin Jump interacts with each of Mario and Luigi's power-ups. As Super Mario or better, Spin Jumps can break Rotating Blocks from above. If a Yoshi is mounted, it can also break blocks until it next lands. As Fire Mario, the Spin Jump scatters fireballs rapidly in both directions, and as Cape Mario, it performs a Cape Spin.
In the Super NES Nintendo Player's Guide, the words "Spin Jump" and "Double Jump" are used interchangeably to refer to a Yoshi Boost. The name for the Spin Jump itself was retained in the guide.

The Spin Jump reappears in Super Mario Land 2: 6 Golden Coins. As Super Mario or Fire Mario, the player can hold  and then press , or  while in midair; Mario then either Spin Jumps or spins in midair. Mario can hit or break blocks from above with this move (like with the Ground Pound). The Spin Jump's stomp can also destroy Koopa Troopas, Koopa Shells, and some multiple-hit enemies by landing on them with it, but unlike in Super Mario World, it does not protect from hazardous enemies. This ability cannot be performed as Small Mario or Bunny Mario.

In Super Mario 64 and Super Mario 64 DS, the Spin Jump occurs after jumping on a Spindrift or Fly Guy or into a tornado, and causes the player character to descend more slowly. In the Nintendo DS remake, Luigi also uses it while descending from a Backward Somersault.
In a pre-release video of Super Mario 64, Mario could activate the same Spin Jump while doing a Triple Jump (it is unknown if doing a Triple Jump first is required).

In Super Mario Sunshine, the player can use the Spin Jump at any time by rotating  and then jumping, or by rotating  while Mario is in midair. It gradually shakes off any goop attached to him. Mario can also perform a Sprinkler Squirt by doing a Spin Jump while using FLUDD's Squirt Nozzle or Turbo Nozzle. This can be done with water and juice.

In New Super Mario Bros., jumping off of a Spin Block activates a Spin Jump while launching Mario or Luigi high into the air. As in Super Mario 64, he falls more slowly in this state. Attempting to ground-pound causes him to spin downwards rapidly in a drill-like motion, known as the Drill Spin.

In Super Mario Galaxy, Mario or Luigi can spin in midair to attack and gain extra height and distance, except it is done in midair, giving Mario or Luigi a little height in his jump. If performed quickly before a Ground Pound, the player character performs a Homing Ground Pound.
If Mario or Luigi is caught in a tornado or Tweester, spinning propels him high into the air. With his arms rotating around his body like helicopter blades, he then gently floats down as with the Spin Jump from Super Mario 64 and Super Mario Sunshine.

In New Super Mario Bros. Wii, Mario, Luigi, Yellow Toad, and Blue Toad can use the Spin Jump. It is performed by shaking the Wii Remote. It functions most similarly to the Spin Jump in Super Mario World, but still no longer protects from stomping otherwise hazardous enemies. Like in that game, it causes Fire Mario and Ice Mario to shoot a fireball or Ice Ball, respectively, in each direction.
The Spin Jump clears nearby clouds and Foos' fog, and causes nearby flowers to drop coins. It also activates Screwtop Shrooms, Screwtop Platforms, and Screwtop Lifts, during which the character does not jump and can power the course part by spinning continuously.
Attempting to Spin Jump in the air performs the Midair Spin, which ekes out more air time, and even allows Mini Mario to fall slowly enough to Wall Jump up one wall. As Propeller Mario, both moves are replaced by flying upwards. This puts the character into a similar state to the Spin Block in New Super Mario Bros., where they fall slowly and can Drill Spin by pressing . They can now also cancel the Drill Spin by releasing , and further slow their descent by shaking the Wii Remote.

The spin returns in Super Mario Galaxy 2, behaving exactly the same as in Super Mario Galaxy.

In New Super Mario Bros. U, New Super Luigi U, and New Super Mario Bros. U Deluxe, the Spin Jump functions as it did in New Super Mario Bros. Wii. Flying Squirrel Mario's Spin Jump is higher than the standard jump. Also as Flying Squirrel Mario, attempting to Midair Spin propels the player character upwards with a Flying Squirrel Jump, which can be done indefinitely as P Flying Squirrel Mario.

The Spin Jump returns in Super Mario 3D World and its port, being performed like in Super Mario Sunshine by rotating  and then jumping while the character is spinning in place. It is the highest jump that any of the characters can perform, and slows the player's descent.
The Spin Jump is also automatically performed if a player jumps on another player in midair.

In Super Mario Maker and Super Mario Maker for Nintendo 3DS, the Spin Jump can be used in the Super Mario World and New Super Mario Bros. U game styles. It retains its ability to break Rotating Blocks in the Super Mario World game style, and to defeat certain enemies such as Galoombas and Koopa Troopas. Unlike in New Super Mario Bros. U, it can be used to jump on most spiked enemies in both game styles, but notably not Grinders as was possible in Super Mario World.
The Midair Spin also returns in the New Super Mario Bros. U game style.

In Super Mario Odyssey, Mario performs the same Spin Jump move from Super Mario 64 when he jumps off a Hat Trampoline. He can also perform the variant seen in Super Mario Sunshine and Super Mario 3D World when the player rotates the Control Stick (which makes him spin in place) and then performs any jump. If Mario Ground Pounds after Spin Jumping, he performs the Drill Spin. Pressing  while spinning  will cause a Spin Throw to be performed instead.
There are also twisters present that spin Mario, similarly to the tornadoes in Super Mario 64, Super Mario Galaxy, and Super Mario Galaxy 2 and the whirlwinds in the Mario & Luigi series.

In Super Mario Maker 2, the Spin Jump and Midair Spin return with the same properties as in the game's predecessor.
In the Super Mario 3D World game style, the Spin Jump from that game can be performed by pressing  and one of the shoulder buttons (, , , or ) while holding ↑ on .

The Spin Jump reappears in Super Mario Bros. Wonder, functioning as in New Super Mario Bros. Wii. The Midair Spin also appears, but certain Badges' abilities replace it while equipped.

In the Mario Kart series, the player can use a Cape Feather to perform a Spin Jump, which also allows them to perform a Jump Boost.

In the Super Smash Bros. series, Mario, Dr. Mario, and Luigi use moves known as Mario Tornado, Dr. Tornado, and Luigi Cyclone, respectively. These moves look similar to and could be based on the Spin Jump. The former two also have access to Cape and Super Sheet, respectively, which can reflect projectiles in a similar manner to the Cape Spin.

The Spin Jump appears as a Battle Card in Paper Mario: Color Splash. It uses red paint and has both a standard and Big variant. When using the move, Mario jumps above the targeted enemy and begins to spin. When  is pressed, Mario will slam downwards onto the enemy. A shockwave is created with a Nice or better Action Command, increasing in size with Great or Excellent, that deals half damage to other enemies. Unlike the Hammer cards, the shockwave can hit floating or aerial enemies. The jump can also hit spiked enemies without damaging Mario.

In Mario & Luigi: Superstar Saga, the Spin Jump is the inspiration for the Bros. Attack called Splash Bros. A technique of the same name appears in all titles of the series besides Mario & Luigi: Paper Jam, though it acts as a means of crossing wide gaps instead of an attack. Mario also performs a quick Spin Jump when greeting Popple and Rookie in the Woohoo Hooniversity.

In Mario Sports Mix, the Spin Jump is used as a tactic for blocking shots in basketball. While Mario is capable of performing this move, more characters are also able to perform this move such as Toad, Princess Peach, and Yoshi (though the latter two have variations of the move such as adding hearts or using a tongue as a part of the attack).

In the Nintendo DS version of Mario & Sonic at the Olympic Winter Games, the Spin Jump appears as Mario's special boost in Rocket Ski Jumping, where it is referred to as the Spinning Jump.

Note: Some blocks cannot be broken."