Spin-Dig Galaxy is a galaxy in Super Mario Galaxy 2. Most of the planets seen in this galaxy are composed of dirt. This galaxy introduces the Spin Drill which the player can use to bore the ground of these planets to come down the other side across them or also enter into underground areas. The entire galaxy is contained inside what appears to be an enormous, rocky sphere with giant holes in it, similar to the final boss area from the first game. Diggas and Twirlips are common enemies in this galaxy. Digga-Leg is the boss that appears in the galaxy. The name of the galaxy is a pun on "shindig".

This is a small planet completely made of dirt. There are three towers of dirt with different heights that Mario can only reach if he finds a Spin Drill around the planet and uses it over three marked spots that lead to the towers. The highest tower of the planet has a Launch Star. The planet also contains a 1-Up Mushroom enclosed in a steel cage and a sum of coins on another dirt tower. During the Digga-Leg's Planet mission, there are Diggas and during the Silver Stars Down Deep mission, Cosmic Clones and Piranha Plants are found here. Some of the towers have coins, but one has Spin Lights and a Luma.

This planet looks like a double-sided peanut-shaped platform that has two sides surrounded by a tall steel fence. The player can use again the Spin Drill to access the other side of the planet. On the upper side there are two high towers of dirt, a small round iron platform and two Twirlips. On the lower side, there are other two towers, in which one is connected to another one on the planet's upper side. Over them, the player can find a Luma that turns into a Launch Star and also a Comet Medal. There are also mini lights that Mario or Luigi can destroy to get three Star Bits.

The planet is a ring-shaped platform of steel blocks surrounding a black hole. Some big Blocks can be found around the ring and are connected to it by yellow platforms that appear and disappear at times. Over these Blocks, the plumber can find a Checkpoint Flag, a Teleporter, and a Launch Star. A 1-Up Mushroom can be found as well over two yellow platforms. Twirlips are found here.

This planet is accessed by the Teleporter on the Steel Ring Planet. The Bonus Planet contains Twirlips and a Rainbow Star which the player has to use to romp all the enemies on the planet.

This planet is similar to the starting planet, but it is covered in gray dirt and has only a tower, which gives the planet a pear-like shape. The player uses the Spin Drill to bore through the ground and go to the hollow center of the planet to find a plethora of Coins. Inside the planet, there is a hole where Mario uses his Drill to go to the top of the tower. A few Goombas can be found on this planet.

This is a small circular planet made of dirt where the boss Digga-Leg lies. Stepping on this planet, the player must move to the sides like in a two-dimensional environment during their fight with Digga-Leg. Some black and yellow security bars decorate the planet and two Spin Drills can be found lying here.
A glitch makes it possible to fight Digga-Leg in 3-D, by getting somehow between his leg and head. The player gets pushed to the front of this planet and is stuck (if the player digs, it is possible to fall off).

In the second mission, Mario uses a Beanstalk from the Starting Planet to swing to this planet. At the top is a Warp Pipe and a Teleporter. Inside the first part of the planet, there are Spin Drills and Diggas. The player must navigate their way through the dirt by aiming for the corners in the walls to turn and get to another Warp Pipe. In the second area, there are three levels of dirt with Amps beneath them. The player must drill at the right time to avoid the Amps and get to the bottom safely. Then the player must take another Warp Pipe at the bottom of the Cylinder Planet where there is a Launch Star encased in a Crystal and Star Bits.

This planet is shaped in the form of a square. The player will need to navigate the planet in a 2D view to find all the five Silver Stars buried. There are many Diggas that keep spawning, and Mario must use the Spin Drill to get inside the core of the planet and collect the five Silver Stars to make the Power Star appear.

The player will redo the Digga-Leg's Planet mission. The player should make their way to the Drill Zone Planet. Once here, they should go to the gated area and backflip onto the fence. The player must carefully walk along the fence until they see the small shadow of the Green Star. They must jump or backflip into it to grab it.

The player will redo the Digga-Leg's Planet mission. This time, they will need to make their way to the Steel Ring Planet near where the Launch Star would appear. One may Triple Jump and spin to reach the star or simply use Luigi's backflip followed by a Star Spin.

The player will redo the Silver Stars Down Deep mission. The final Green Star is located inside the Purple Cylinder Planet. It is located after the first corner that the player digs through. To get this star, the player should be by it, then get hurt by the Digga to get rid of the Spin Drill. Then, they should wall jump off the dirt, where the player came in through, to reach the Star.

The galaxy's starting planet appears on the map of World 8's second half in Dr. Mario World.