Star Thwomps, originally known as Super Thwomps, and previously known simply as Thwomps, are shiny counterparts of Thwomps appearing in the Mario Kart series only, specifically SNES Rainbow Road.

Super Thwomps first appear in Super Mario Kart on Rainbow Road where they act like regular Thwomps, though these Thwomps glow and spin racers out if they run into them, unlike normal Thwomps. There are sixteen of them, divided in four groups of four each, located after the first two ramps (two on each side), on the narrow straight after the next three ramps (two on the left side, then two on the right side), within the forked road (two per side), and before the finish line (in the center).

Super Thwomps reappear in Mario Kart 7, with the return of SNES Rainbow Road as a retro track. Like before, they behave like normal Thwomps, but using their modern spiked appearance from New Super Mario Bros. Wii, albeit with a more intense rainbow design, rather than the blunt one used by the Thwomps on Bowser's Castle. Once again, racers flip if they run into them. Due to their bigger size, they appear in lesser numbers, from sixteen to seven (one Thwomp stands in for every two originally present, though the second quartet is replaced with just one); they also cause the track to wave when they slam the ground, allowing racers to use them for tricks.

In Mario Kart 8, Star Thwomps once again appear on SNES Rainbow Road included in the first downloadable content pack. Unlike Mario Kart 7, they are based upon their Super Mario Galaxy design, much like the Thwomps in Thwomp Ruins, though they still flip racers on contact. Along with the SNES Rainbow Road course, these Thwomps reappear in Mario Kart 8 Deluxe as part of the game's base content.

Star Thwomps return in Mario Kart Tour with their Mario Kart 8 and Mario Kart 8 Deluxe appearance. They are found on SNES Rainbow Road, RMX Rainbow Road 1, RMX Rainbow Road 2, and Wii Rainbow Road R/T, functioning in the same manner as in previous installments. They are also featured as obstacles in the Glider Challenge of SNES Rainbow Road and are the main obstacles in the Steer Clear of Obstacles bonus challenge of 3DS Rainbow Road, where they stay still or move horizontally as well. Star Thwomps have also appeared in bonus challenges outside of Rainbow Road courses, namely the Steer Clear of Obstacles bonus challenge set in GBA Bowser's Castle 1 and the Glider Challenge set at SNES Mario Circuit 3.