Starshine Beach Galaxy is a galaxy located in World 4 of Super Mario Galaxy 2. The galaxy is beach-themed and has some elements from Super Mario Sunshine's Isle Delfino, including Piantas that can hurl the player to other parts of the galaxy and a statue similar to the Grand Pianta Statue in Delfino Plaza. The tower in this galaxy also bears a resemblance to the Shine Tower from Gelato Beach. The galaxy is also slightly shaped like a dolphin, much like Isle Delfino, and the background music uses similar instrumentation to Super Mario Sunshine's Delfino Plaza music. Yoshi is also found in this galaxy. Crabbers and Lakitus are common enemies. Dash Peppers and Blimp Fruits are also found in this galaxy. 

The Water Sphere Coral Planet takes place in a small tower surrounded by water and colorful coral. There is a Launch Star below the tower which launches Mario down to the Starshine Beach Planet. It also bears a slight resemblance to the Water Planets from Good Egg Galaxy.

The Tropical Cloud Tower Planet is a huge planet inhabited by Piantas. Crabs and a Lakitu can be found in the surface. Underwater, there are Cheep Cheeps, Bloopers, a Clampy and Gringills. There is a tower on the west side of the planet. On top of it is a tree. To the right of the starting point is a hill with a small hut-like structure. In the center of the planet is a Pianta fountain and on the east side is a big underwater section with a bottle-like floating platform and a big underwater structure which rises above the water.

The Coin Room Brick Flat Brown Planet can be found in a Warp Pipe surrounded by pink flowers. A ? Coin is found in this room, and if Mario collects three sets of coins within the time limit, he will be granted Star Bits.

This bonus planet is inhabited by Crabbers, and if Mario defeats them all within the time limit, he gets three 1-Up Mushrooms.

The first Green Star is found during the Surf, Sand, and Silver Stars mission. It is located above a ? Block which is located atop a palm tree, next to the floating buoy. The player must use the Blimp Fruit to reach the tree and then use the flutter jump to reach the green star.

The second Green Star is also found during the Surf, Sand, and Silver Stars mission. It is located near the tower where the Cloud Flower switch is, above the ocean. The player needs to use Dash Yoshi to run towards the Green Star, and then perform a timed flutter jump followed by a somersault off of Yoshi to reach the star.

The third Green Star is found during the Climbing the Cloudy Tower mission. They have to activate the ground-pound switch on the top of the tower to make a Cloud Flower appear. The player has to use the Cloud Flower as well as the leaf raft, and go to the floating trampoline that is located nearby this tower (the trampoline should be facing upwards, where the Green Star's shadow should be in the small space). Once the player fixes the angle at which the trampoline faces, they should proceed to jump on it and get launched into the air. From there, the player should continuously create clouds until they reach the Green Star.