The Statue of Liberty appears in the Super Mario franchise as a statue located on Liberty Island, New York City. Like in real life, it is a famous statue honoring the friendship between France and the United States of America, and it holds up a torch that symbolizes enlightenment.

In the episode "Flatbush Koopa" in The Super Mario Bros. Super Show!, when Mario and Luigi arrive at Brooklyn, they discover that the Statue of Liberty was changed to a statue of King Koopa, which they refer to as the Statue of Kooperty.

The Statue of Liberty appears in The Adventures of Super Mario Bros. 3 episode "Recycled Koopa". When King Koopa planned to turn the human populace of New York City, let alone the rest of the Real World, into Koopa Zombies when his garbage was dumped into Brooklyn by the Koopalings, the statue was mutated into a Koopa statue (similar to The Super Mario Bros. Super Show!) before Koopa continued his dumping spree with his Crud Cannon, and just as Mario began mutating into a Koopa Zombie himself. The statue was transformed back to normal, along with the city's populace and Mario, thanks to the brothers' Trash Smasher, and as the brothers chased Koopa out of the city, the statue commented on the success of the brothers for foiling his plan. The statue was voiced by Tracey Moore.

The Statue of Liberty appears in the PC, SNES, and NES versions of Mario is Missing! as one of the three landmarks in the city that Koopa Troopas stole artifacts from in New York City. Luigi has to find the Statue of Liberty Torch and deliver it back to the statue for a reward of 1,750 dollars (plus a bonus prize of 2,500 dollars in the SNES version). Luigi must answer one of the following trivia questions:

A parody of the Statue of Liberty modeled after Princess Peach holding a Super Star in its raised hand and a Fire Flower in the other appears in in Mario Kart 8 and Mario Kart 8 Deluxe in the distant background of Toad Harbor. The Statue of Liberty itself appears in the Booster Course Pass during a tunnel section near the end of Tour New York Minute's final lap; it is non-interactable and is part of the background only.

The Statue of Liberty appears in Mario Kart Tour as a background element in a tunnel section of New York Minute 3 and New York Minute 4, as well as being depicted on a badge.