Stop Watches (alternatively formatted as Stopwatches), also known as Time Stops, appear in the Super Mario franchise as clock items that usually slow down or stop time when collected.

If the player first pulls up four large vegetables in Yume Kōjō: Doki Doki Panic and Super Mario Bros. 2, pulling up what would be a fifth one will instead reveal a Stop Watch. It will appear for a second and then freeze everything in the level for a few seconds. This gives a window of opportunity for Mario and his friends to avoid or defeat enemies and collect small hearts. However, touching the frozen enemies still hurts the player. Stop Watches have gray/green sprites in the original release. In the Super Mario All-Stars version, however, they are depicted as gold when playing as Mario or Luigi, gold with a dark red outline as Princess Toadstool, or blue with a brown outline as Toad. This is due to the Stop Watch using the same palette as the player character, consequently subjecting them to any changes done when switching characters. In Super Mario Advance, Stop Watches are orange.

In the Nintendo Comics System story Cloud Nine, it appears as an animate object who acts as the Mushroom King's alarm clock, dodging the grumpy King's attempts to swat him and fearfully running to Princess Toadstool for safety.

The Stop Watch later appears as an item in Paper Mario. When Mario or his partners use it, it will immobilize enemies for a few turns (assuming it is successful). It can be bought at most stores and is a fairly common item. Stop Watches appear in the following locations:

It reappears in Paper Mario: The Thousand-Year Door as the Stopwatch. Here, it is a somewhat rare item, for it can only be purchased in Twilight Town or Fahr Outpost. The item will immobilize enemies, just as in the game's predecessor. However, enemies can also use the item against Mario or his partners. Several warped clocks appearing in various colors will appear on-screen after using the item. After about four seconds, the item takes effect and immobilizes its target.
Stop Watches appear in the following locations:

The Stop Watch also appears as an uncommon item in Super Paper Mario, where it immobilizes all enemies.
Stop Watches appear in the following locations:

The Stop Watch appears again in Mario & Luigi: Dream Team as a badge effect that occurs when mixing the Miracle Badge with the Gold Badge.

Stopwatches are unused items  in Super Mario Advance 4: Super Mario Bros. 3, where they would have functioned like they did in Super Mario Bros. 2.