Sunglow Ridge is a location from Paper Mario: Color Splash. The path leading here is unlocked after getting the yellow Mini Paint Star in either Daffodil Peak or Bloo Bay Beach, and unlocks a path leading to Château Chanterelle. When Mario first arrives here, he is unable to explore it due to the Scarlet Gate being drained of its color, though he does find a purple Rescue Squad member here. After the Red Big Paint Star is obtained from the Crimson Tower, it colors in the Scarlet Gate, allowing the area to be explored.
A Banzai Bill is fired here, covering a portion of the course in black paint.

When Mario first visits the area, he finds that the gate has not yet been painted. He can talk to the purple Rescue Squad's Toad 2, who then runs off to Ruddy Road to meet with his captain. Huey tells Mario to focus on other places for now and come back to Sunglow Ridge later.
After Mario defeats Morton at the Crimson Tower and recovers the red Big Paint Star, it colors in the gate. Mario can now open the gate, after which he encounters a Goomba. Huey explains that Mario's First Strikes get more powerful with every Big Paint Star he collects, and he can easily defeat the Goomba. Mario then must drop down a ledge and hit an Unfurl Block, then hammer a log with an Unfurl Mark to turn it into a bridge.
A Banzai Bill then lands in the distance and causes a skull-shaped explosion. Huey is shocked and tells Mario to investigate. At this point, the music changes. In the next area, Mario must paint in and hammer a tree to cause an Unfurl Block to drop from it. He must then hammer another log and unfurl it. Going into the next area, Mario has to climb up a ramp, which collapses. Huey suggests finding another way to get to the top. Mario must climb to a lumber mill, avoiding rolling logs.
Entering the mill, he will see Shy Guys invading the lumber mill, who attack him. After painting in the uncolored Toads, Mario can hit the Unfurl Block and run down the ramp, hitting a log and creating a path to a Warp Pipe. This pipe lets him access an area covered in black paint. If Mario touches it, he loses 30 HP. Touching the black paint with less than 30 HP depletes Mario's HP to one instead of killing him, though the damage icon remains unchanged. Huey instructs Mario to close his eyes, and when he opens them again, the black paint is gone, and the music turns back to normal. Mario then must walk across two bridges to drop into a hole with dancing Slurp Guys and an Unfurl Block. This time, he must unfurl a sign instead of a rolled-up log, and he can then use Cutout to reach the yellow Mini Paint Star.