The Sunrise Temple is a location in Mario + Rabbids Sparks of Hope, located on the planet Beacon Beach. It is a temple that is initially submerged underwater, but emerges after light shines on it. The sun has the power to do this, but so does the Spark Twinkle. Frightened, Twinkle erratically flies and activates the Sunrise Temple, and then enters it. The heroes chase after Twinkle, as they need its power to open the Lighthouse. Edge follows after the heroes without them knowing, much to the worry of Augie.
Inside the Sunrise Temple, the heroes find Twinkle, but it gets snatched by a Darkmess Tentacle. The heroes save it from the Giant Wildclaw, with the help of Edge, who joins the heroes after rescuing Twinkle. Augie then tells the heroes that there is a shortcut back to the Lighthouse, which turns out to be the basement of one of the houses in Beacon Town.

The Sunrise Temple is large in size. There are two Teleport Flags inside the temple: one at the entrance, and another at the throne room. Multiple Goombas and Wildclaws roam inside the Sunrise Temple. Scattered throughout the temple are murals that depict Augie's backstory.
When the heroes enter the Sunrise Temple, they can find a Rabbid who has the Goomba Hunt Side Quest. There is a puzzle that involves pushing blocks out of the way to allow water to reach to a wheel, raising the water level to create a bridge across a gap. The heroes will eventually come across a Darkmess Tentacle, which is part of the In Deep Water Main Quest. Edge will joins the heroes after the quest is complete, along with the Spark Exosphere.
Professor Backpack is seen not far after the Darkmess Tentacle. He has a riddle for the heroes known as The Riddle of the Sunrise Temple. If the heroes can solve it, they are awarded a Star Potion. A Blue Toad is trapped in a Darkmess Puddle in an optional area.
One path leads to the From Bad to Worse quest, which involves the heroes fixing various portraits of Augie to free the Spark Electrodash.
A golden pipe close to the shortcut leads to the Giant Goomba, which requires 12 Sparks to unlock. If the heroes manage to defeat the Giant Goomba, they are awarded a  Gold Skill Prism.

Below is a list of all 9 murals describing the backstory of Augie. All of these are narrated by Beep-0:

While its date of origin is uncertain, the Sunrise Temple seems quite ancient. Damaged, but explorable, it slowly revealed its mysteries - a secret passage leading to Beacon Town, a mysterious room filled with timeworn pottery, and a series of murals depicting the warden's life story (which I personally found self-indulgent - perhaps due to an effort by Augie to garner sympathy).