Sunset Express is a location found in Paper Mario: Color Splash. The path leading here is unlocked after getting the orange Mini Paint Star from Tangerino Grill, and will color in the Draggadon fossil in Marmalade Valley after getting the orange Big Paint Star here. Larry is fought on top of the train after he hijacks it.

After Mario and Huey arrive, a blue Toad tells them about a rockslide on the tracks, stopping the Sunset Express from going to Starlight Cape. If they investigate, they find a Thwomp blocking the path. Huey shouts at it to wake up, but is unsuccessful. Mario must go back to the train station and hammer an Unfurl Block, then dodge rolling logs and Shy Guys to reach a large crate that can be unfurled. It turns into a water tower, dispenses a Save Block, and Mario can now navigate around the Thwomp to get to its right. The Megaphone Thing must be inserted through a Cutout, and Huey screams at the Thwomp so loudly it wakes up and goes away. However, the train is then hijacked by Larry and his minions. The conductor comes by on a handcar and, with Mario's help, catches up to the train.
The first car of the Sunset Express has Toad #1 of the red Rescue Squad taped to the door. In the second car, Toad #41 warns Mario of Shy Guys peeking through the doors. If Mario is spotted by the first two Shy Guys, he is dragged into the room and beaten up, while if he interrupts the third one, he battles it. When Toad #2 is freed, he begins clinging to the window, so Mario must hammer him out. The third car is invaded by Fuzzies and contains a locked suitcase. In the fourth car, Toad #33 of the red Rescue Squad is afraid of a Shunned Guy on the floor, and Mario must sneak up on it and then hit it with his hammer. Next, Mario must walk in front of this car and use Cutout on the stair-like pattern. This takes him to the roof, where he can fight Rocky Wrenches and eventually free Toad #35.
Mario must hit the Unfurl Block on the roof and unfurl a barrel on the next car, forming a carpet up to its roof. Mario can drop down into this room to find Toads #36-#39 being held captive by eight Snifits. After the Snifits are defeated, they drop the Trunk Key and the Toads escape. The Trunk Key must be used in the locked suitcase in car three, freeing Toads #3-#32. Back in the fifth car, which is full of enemies that Mario can talk to, Toad #42 is sitting and talking to a Shy Guy. Toad #34 is nearby, looking at the coal car. Next, Mario must return to the roof and free Toad #40, who is being trapped by a Spike. As Mario approaches the front of the train, he is attacked by three Coal Guys.
Finally, Mario approaches Larry, who reveals that he was the VIP customer at Tangerino Grill. After the first turn, Larry stands on the smokestack and has a Shy Guy throw health-restoring hearts from the cabin to heal him. The train conductor runs down to stop the Shy Guy, and Mario must fight off Larry's minions to protect the conductor. After three turns, the conductor defeats the Shy Guy. Mario must use the Cork Thing from Vortex Island to plug up the smokestack, and then deal enough damage to defeat Larry. The conductor takes control of the train again.
The train stops at Starlight Cape, and Mario and Huey admire the sunset when they see a shooting star. Mario wishes that Princess Peach is safe, while Huey wishes that they will find all six Big Paint Stars. Suddenly, the orange Big Paint Star descends, which Huey takes as a sign of their wishes coming true. When Mario collects the Big Paint Star, it repaints the Draggadon fossil in Marmalade Valley.