A comprehensive list of enemy statistics from the Nintendo Switch remake of Super Mario RPG. This bestiary also serves as the Monster List, which is a feature found in the Journal sub-menu in the main menu. It is a bestiary listing the enemies and bosses the player has encountered in their adventure, displaying a general listing of their stats, item drops, and a short description for them. The player can also view an enemy's Thought Peek quote with  if Mallow has successfully done so with that enemy in battle, and display their battle animations with . Unlike bestiaries in other role-playing games such as the Final Fantasy series, the Monster List does not show any more specific stats for an enemy, such as attack power, resistances, or currency dropped. There is a total of 235 entries in the Monster List.
When the player encounters an enemy in battle but has not yet analyzed their weaknesses with Thought Peek, their weaknesses appear as "?" symbols in their Monster List entry until they do so. The player completes an enemy's Monster List entry when their thought is analyzed, marked by a green checkmark next to its name. 
The player can purchase completed Thought Peek entries from the Monster List Agent, a hidden blond mushroom person with a green vest in the second area of Booster Pass, for three Frog Coins each. For enemies encountered before Mallow joins Mario's party, their entries are given for free. The agent provides write-ups only for enemies the player has encountered, whether they have defeated them or not, however clearing the game allows for the agent to provide entries for the ones the player missed before then, with the exceptions of Jagger, Jinx, and Culex whose entries are displayed as "It's been sealed" if they were not fought. Clearing the minigames in which Booster and Dodo are involved automatically adds their entries to the Monster List. For Cloaker, Domino, Bad Adder, and Mad Adder, the bosses the player would not be able to fight automatically have their entries added as well. Duel-Ready Johnny's entry is automatically added once he is defeated due to Mario fighting him one-on-one and thus cannot use Mallow during the battle.
Completing every enemy entry for the Monster List puts a gold medal on the top left corner of the screen, and talking to the hidden agent rewards the player with the Monster Trophy.
For a complete listing of enemy statistics from the original game, see Super Mario RPG: Legend of the Seven Stars bestiary. Stats between both versions of this game may vary.

Enemy animations in quotation marks are conjecturally named.