Super Mario 3D World is a 3D platformer action game for the Wii U, released in Japan on November 21, 2013, in North America on November 22, 2013, in Brazil on November 26, 2013, in Europe on November 29, 2013, and in Australia on November 30, 2013. It is the seventeenth entry in the Super Mario series, the seventh 3D Super Mario title overall, and the fifth 3D Super Mario title on a home console after Super Mario Galaxy 2. Being the sequel to the 2011 Nintendo 3DS title Super Mario 3D Land, the game builds upon the previous installment, following a similar 3D level-design convention inspired from the 2D platformer titles where players must navigate through a linear-designed level within a time limit to reach a level's Goal Pole. The game's plot centers around Mario, Luigi, Princess Peach, and Toad having to rescue the Sprixie Princesses, the rulers of the Sprixie Kingdom, from Bowser. 
One key aspect introduced in this title is the simultaneous multiplayer: while not the first game in the series to do so, it is the first 3D title in the Super Mario franchise to incorporate up to four players cooperating with each other to reach the goal. Players can select their character from a pool of playable characters prior to starting the game; each of these characters have their own unique playstyle that gives them advantages and disadvantages over other characters. The game makes use of several Wii U exclusive features, such as tapping blocks with the touch screen on the GamePad and blowing into the mic to reveal hidden items and blow away enemies. Various new power-ups are introduced in this title, with the trademark suit being the Cat power-up, which enables characters to perform a melee attack, climb up walls, and leap while midair, as well as the game generally having a cat-based theme.
It included Miiverse integration through collectible stamps that could be used in Miiverse posts, and the Ghost Mii functionality that emulates players replaying levels for other players to view; however, the service was terminated on November 7, 2017, meaning that stamps can be collected, but can no longer be used. Additionally, the Miiverse posts that appeared on the course select screen and when selecting courses are no longer present. 
The game introduces a smaller set of levels called Captain Toad's Adventures, which were later reused and expanded into its own standalone title and prequel, Captain Toad: Treasure Tracker.
An enhanced port called Super Mario 3D World + Bowser's Fury for the Nintendo Switch was released on February 12, 2021.

On an evening in the Mushroom Kingdom, Mario, Luigi, Princess Peach, and Toad come to view and enjoy the fireworks outside of Peach's Castle, when they discover a slanted Clear Pipe along the path. Mario and Luigi fix the Clear Pipe with hammers and wrenches, causing the pipe to eject a large number of items as well as a Sprixie Princess, a fairy-like creature of the Sprixie species. The Green Sprixie Princess begins to explain that Bowser has kidnapped six of her fellow Sprixie Princesses and that she needs their help; however, Bowser himself emerges from the pipe and traps the princess inside a bottle before disappearing back down the pipe with her. Peach, in trying to stop Bowser, falls down the pipe herself, and the others soon follow in order to assist her. The heroes soon end up in the Sprixie Kingdom, where the journey mainly takes place.
After going through six worlds, the group encounter Bowser in World Castle, where he is keeping the Red Sprixie Princess; the only Sprixie Princess whom has not been saved yet. After the group successfully defeats Bowser, the Sprixie Princess is saved. The celebration is cut short, however, when Bowser ambushes them and grabs all seven Sprixie Princesses in a large bottle. With their combined power, he creates World Bowser: a theme park modeled after himself, and escapes to a tower.
The heroes make their way through this world and encounter Bowser again in The Great Tower of Bowser Land. Here, Bowser uses a Super Bell to transform to Meowser and makes duplicates of himself, initiating the final battle. The group manages to defeat Meowser after climbing the tower and rescue all of the Sprixie Princesses. Now safe from Bowser, the princesses thank the heroes as they go through a Clear Pipe back to the Mushroom Kingdom.

Super Mario 3D World is a linear 3D platform game with gameplay similar to the 2D games. The player must navigate through levels, defeating enemies and collecting power-ups on the way. The player clears a level by reaching the Goal Pole at the end before losing a life or running out of time. The player can store collected power-ups in the item storage, allowing them to be collected by pressing . The player can also collect Green Stars and stamps, which allow the player to unlock certain levels or can be used in Miiverse posts, respectively. Points are earned by collecting items and defeating enemies, and are used to determine the player's high score in a level. The player completes the main game when they clear World Bowser and completes the entire game when all bonus worlds are complete and all Green Stars and stamps are collected.

For the first time in a 3D Super Mario title, the game supports up to four-player simultaneous multiplayer, allowing players to control Mario, Luigi, Princess Peach, Toad, and Rosalina; additional players can drop in at any time by pressing /, and can drop out by pausing and pressing  on the pause menu, similar to New Super Mario Bros. Wii and New Super Mario Bros. U; in this game, however, players can also switch characters before entering a stage. Each character has different abilities, much like they had in Super Mario Bros. 2. The multiplayer works similarly to New Super Mario Bros. Wii and New Super Mario Bros. U, in that players can enter a bubble at any time, pick each other up and throw each other, bounce on each others' heads, and so on. Players also share lives when playing in multiplayer, rather than each player having a separate life counter. The game uses a cooperative and competitive multiplayer system; each player works together to get to the end of the stage, but is ranked based on points earned out of the total score at the end. The player that scores the most points for one stage receives a crown, which can be stolen by the other players and gives the player wearing it at the end of the stage a score bonus.
In addition to being the default player one controller, the  can be used at any point during gameplay (multiplayer or not) to interact with the environment, allowing players to stun enemies, momentarily reveal hidden objects (both in levels and on the map), hit blocks, stop moving platforms, and various other functions, similar to the Co-Star Luma from Super Mario Galaxy 2 and Boost Mode from New Super Mario Bros. U. If the player rubs an enemy with the touch screen, a coin is spawned. The  can also be used to control the camera during gameplay by pressing the button on the bottom corner of the GamePad screen and tilting the controller, in what is known as Free Camera Mode. It works in a similar fashion to the camera from Super Mario 64 and Super Mario Sunshine. The GamePad can also be used for Off-TV Play at any point.

Super Mario 3D World features Nintendo Network support in the form of Miiverse integration and Ghost Miis. These features are first enabled on a given save file after progressing a bit into the game. With Miiverse, players could make a post at any point on the World Map or after completing a stage by tapping the "Post" icon; other players' posts could also be viewed on the World Map by walking up to their Miis and pressing /, or on the top of the stage results screen. Ghost Miis are created after the player clears a course without losing a life, and they perfectly recreate the player's movements throughout the course, automatically distributing them to other players. Players who receive the data can play through an already cleared course with three Ghost Mii characters. While traveling through a course, the Ghost Mii characters occasionally carry gifts behind them that when caught can contain various items. The Nintendo Network settings for this title can be changed at any point by pausing the game and selecting the Nintendo Network icon button.

Super Mario 3D World plays very similarly to Super Mario 3D Land, being a 3D platformer with gameplay similar to the 2D games. This game retains its predecessor's similarity to Super Mario Bros. 3 (with colorful blocks, the Super Leaf, Spikes, and the Lose a Life theme returning from that game); many elements from Super Mario World return as well, such as Chargin' Chucks, unshelled Koopas, and Galoombas (the Goombas of that game renamed). Stages are once again open yet linear, have a time limit, and end by grabbing the classic Goal Pole at the end. Green Stars return from the Super Mario Galaxy games, taking the role of the Star Medals from Super Mario 3D Land. There are also various stamps that the player can find. There is one in each level and they can be used in Miiverse posts. The game also seems to be slightly more puzzle-focused than its predecessors. The path from the start of the level to the goal is no longer a straight shot, and the players would often have to use certain power-ups and items in order to find the way ahead. Additionally, the game also features a score system, the first time one has appeared in a 3D Super Mario game.

Almost every power-up and item from Super Mario 3D Land returns (except the Statue Leaf and P-Wing). The Mega Mushroom from New Super Mario Bros. also makes an appearance. There are also several new power-ups and suits; The most prominent of the new power-ups is the Super Bell, a power-up that grants the player a Cat Suit, allowing them to lunge at and claw enemies and climb up walls.

As part of the Year of Luigi celebration, also included is another game that can be accessed from the title screen after beating the main game once (or immediately if New Super Luigi U save data is present). The game, titled Luigi Bros., is a modified ROM of Mario Bros., but with Luigi with his modern colors as the first player and the original Luigi as the second player. The game can be accessed by touching the Luigi button found in the bottom-left corner of the screen. As it is a modification of the original NES game, it makes use of the Virtual Console interface and allows the use of save/restore points. Also, similar to New Super Luigi U, Pixel Luigis can be found throughout the game.

The game features a large world map, consisting of eight worlds with four unlockable bonus worlds, with a total of 116 courses (including Sprixie Houses) across all worlds. Each world is connected by Clear Pipes. Unlike previous games, where players follow a fixed path through the maps, the map here can be freely roamed with full control of the characters, except with a limited jump. Each world features a set of levels along with Enemy Battles, Toad Houses, Sprixie Houses, Lucky Houses, and either Mystery Houses or a puzzle-focused series of levels called Captain Toad's Adventures with Captain Toad playable. The maps also contain items such as coins and 1-Up Mushrooms and other secrets.
When the player finishes a course with all Green Stars, the ball ornament on the Goal Pole is replaced with a Green Star, which can even become gold when the stage is cleared with all five characters, the stamp from that stage is collected (if any), and at least one character touches the top of the flag at the end of the stage. Upon reaching World Crown, the player can also see which stage has been cleared with which characters on the Map Progression screen or when approaching a stage. When all the stages in a world have been cleared with every character, a paw print mark is shown on the upper-right corner of the Map Progression screen.
Level names with a  Green Star icon appended to them are locked upon discovery, and require the player to have the listed number of Green Stars to unlock and play the level.

A - Due to the service's discontinuation on 7 November, 2017, features explicitly tied to Miiverse (i.e. posts, Ghost Miis, etc.) no longer appear in the game.

In addition to those listed below, all of the enemies and obstacles in Luigi Bros. previously appeared in the Mario Bros. arcade game. As displayed from left to right, they are: Shellcreepers, Sidesteppers, Fighter Flies, Freezies, and Fireballs. For specific details about them, see here.

Bosses are listed in the order that they are first encountered.

These are collectibles, pickups, and health-restoring objects.

Items that transform Mario's appearance and give him unique abilities.

Objects are interactable elements of the environment that cannot be collected or worn by Mario. For objects that primarily function as obstructions or hazards, see above.

Like with New Super Luigi U, Super Mario 3D World commemorates the Year of Luigi by featuring Pixel Luigis hidden in various parts of the game. However, they are not just restricted to levels, with some appearing in the worlds and elsewhere.

The game producer is Yoshiaki Koizumi, and the game was directed by Koichi Hayashida and Kenta Motokura. This game marks Laura Faye Smith's debut as the current voice actress of Rosalina. General game production is done by Satoru Iwata and Shigeru Miyamoto.

Super Mario 3D World was first mentioned during the January 2013 Nintendo Direct alongside Mario Kart 8, in which it was announced that a new 3D Super Mario platformer was being developed by the same team behind Super Mario Galaxy. It was later properly announced in the June 11, 2013 Nintendo Direct during E3 2013, when its release window was also revealed.
Plans for Super Mario 3D World picked up following the release of Super Mario Galaxy 2. Like with Super Mario 3D Land, the developers intended to bridge the gap between 2D and 3D to appease fans of the New Super Mario Bros. games that did not care for the 3D installments.
According to Koichi Hayashida, Peach was originally not planned to be playable before Yoshiaki Koizumi suggested to the development team that she should be included in the playable roster. Super Mario 3D World ended up being the first 3D Super Mario platformer in which Princess Peach is playable and not kidnapped. Similarly, Rosalina was added into the game in response to her rise in popularity among fans.
According to game director Kenta Motokura, the game went through numerous concepts suggested by over one hundred staff members via sticky notes that were extensively playtested, such as the Mystery Houses and The Adventures of Captain Toad levels. The Cat form was one of the earliest ideas that passed development, with the intention of creating a method of directly attacking enemies and assisting novice players in clearing obstacles. The Double Cherry, on the other hand, was conceived entirely by accident when a staff member inadvertently loaded two identical character models into a test level, which was well-received by the developers and thus hurriedly added into the final game.

Super Mario 3D World received widespread critical acclaim and has been praised for its gameplay, visuals, music, level design, the Cat form's usefulness, and its improved 4-player co-op compared to New Super Mario Bros. Wii. However, it has been criticized for camera issues and co-op control issues. The game currently has a score of 93 on Metacritic based on 83 reviews, a score of 92.56% on GameRankings based on 54 reviews, and an average score of 93 and recommendation score of 96% on OpenCritic based on 74 reviews.
Mark Walton, reviewing for GameSpot, called the game an "exceptional craft" with "painstaking focus on the minute details that are integral to making it feel special." He also added that "[every one of the game's levels] is a golden nugget of heavenly platforming joy, where ideas are rarely repeated--and if they are, they're given such a twist as to make them feel new again." Jose Otero of IGN gave the game a 9.6 out of 10, commenting that, "After 28 years of making marvelous Super Mario platform games, you'd think Nintendo would run out of ideas. But Super Mario 3D World defies such logic and creativity sets itself apart-in good ways-from its outstanding recent predecessors." Chris Carter, reviewing for Destructoid, called it one of the greatest Super Mario games ever made and gave it a 10 out of 10, stating, "Why is 3D World so good? Because it's essentially a complete refinement of everything that was great about 3D Land, a game that I happen to think is criminally underrated. 3D World is pretty much a joy ride from start to finish--and that "start" is as quick as ever." Adam Cook from God is a Geek scored the game as a 100, saying, "Unimpeded creativity drips from every moment, forcing an awed expression from the most cynical of mouths. Decades old ideas are renewed with such ease and simplicity that it's almost unnerving. I've fought Bowser more times than I can even remember, yet the first encounter somehow feels fresh. There's always a princess, there's always another castle, Bowser is still involved (this time he’s stolen Sprixies and locked them in jars) – it’s the design and execution of it all that makes it so special."

As of March 1, 2020, Super Mario 3D World is the second-best selling game for the Wii U, selling 5.83 million units worldwide. As of September 30, 2021, it had sold 5.88 million units worldwide.

A week prior to the game's launch in North America, employees at GameStop were given cat ears to wear. The cat ears came in yellow, green, blue, and pink, matching the default playable characters' cat form colors. Those who pre-ordered the game at a GAME location received a keychain of Mario in his cat form and a cat sleeve as a bonus. On the NintendoWiiUUK YouTube channel, a shadow puppet short based on the game was uploaded. It featured the talent of hand shadow expert Drew Colby and was specifically inspired by Shadow Play Alley. The Play Nintendo website features a trivia game based on power-ups from Super Mario 3D World.

The game's official original soundtrack, "Super Mario 3D World Original Sound Track" has been released to Club Nintendo members in Japan, Europe, and Australia, and has been performed by the Mario 3D World Big Band.

If Small Toad Long Jumps into a Snowball, he sits down and slides right while holding the Snowball. He is unable to jump and continues gaining momentum while moving. This glitch can be canceled by letting go of the Snowball.

If done correctly, one can get on top of the World Bowser entrance pipe by jumping onto the nearby pole first, and then fall to the worlds down below. Additionally, if the player quits the game while they are falling out of bounds, the progress does not save, and when restarting the game, the music of the world the player was in when the glitch was activated plays for a short time.

Early concept artwork reveals that Cat characters were going to have five fingers, and that Princess Peach's Cat Suit was going to incorporate her brooch. The levels shown off in the E3 demo also have different world and number placements than the final game. Additionally, several sound clips were changed to brand new ones when they were reused ones from previous games in the demo, and several pieces of music were changed to being orchestrated in the final product.