Super Mario Bros. Deluxe is a platform game released on the Game Boy Color in 1999 as a remake of the 1985 game Super Mario Bros., as well as an unlockable remake of its sequel, Super Mario Bros.: The Lost Levels. The game in Japan was released on a Nintendo Power cartridge instead of the usual Game Pak format. This game was initially released for the 3DS's Virtual Console in Japan, Europe, and Australia in 2014, as part of a special offer, and was later available to download for everyone in Europe, Australia, and North America with an added cost. The Virtual Console release requires 51 blocks (6.5 MB) of memory to be installed.
The game received critical acclaim for a number of reasons, including bringing back the original Super Mario Bros. for a whole younger generation to experience, especially to a handheld that allowed players to enjoy Super Mario Bros. wherever they went, the inclusion of the previously rarely seen Super Mario Bros.: The Lost Levels, and the great abundance of featured unlockables.
This game also serves as a precursor for the Super Mario Advance series of rereleases, and Super Mario 64 DS as a classic title with additional features.

The story for Super Mario Bros. and Super Mario Bros.: The Lost Levels are exactly the same as in their original releases, but present minor alterations. The plot follows like this, as detailed on the game's manual:

Once upon a time, the peaceful Mushroom Kingdom was invaded by the Koopa, a tribe of turtles famous for their dark magic. These terrible terrapins transformed the peace loving Mushroom People into stones, bricks, and ironically, mushrooms, then set their own evil king on the throne. In the wake of the ghastly coup d'etat, the beautiful Mushroom Kingdom fell into ruin and despair.
It is said that only the daughter of the Mushroom King, Princess Toadstool, can break the evil spell and return the inhabitants of Mushroom kingdom to their normal selves.
But the King of the Koopas, knowing of this prophecy, kidnapped the lovely Princess and hid her away in one of his castles.
Word of the terrible plight of the Mushroom People quickly spread throughout the land, eventually reaching the ears of a humble plumber. The simple, yet valiant Mario vowed to rescue the Princess and free her subjects from King Koopa's tyrannous reign. But can Mario really overcome the many obstacles facing him and become a true hero?

This is the first mode of the game that the player will encounter. It is a nearly exact replica of the 1985 edition of Super Mario Bros., having only a few changes. The player will once again have to travel through eight worlds, each containing four levels. There are three save files to choose from. The player can use  to either save or quit the game.

This mode allows the player to travel through any one of the 32 levels of Super Mario Bros. of their choosing, only this time, the player must collect Red Coins and Yoshi Eggs, and try to get higher scores to unlock Medals. The player can also unlock additional pictures and awards to view in the Toy Box if they do exceptionally well. In each level, five Red Coins are hidden, either replacing some regular coins (including some in Coin Blocks), or in new locations. The Yoshi Egg is in an invisible block that is hidden somewhere in the level; the player may get a clue as to where Yoshi Eggs are hidden by choosing Yoshi in the Toy Box. High scores may be attained through the usual methods, with each level having a target score that awards a Score Medal. The targets are lower in the Japanese version of the game. There are some differences in scoring between Challenge Mode and the original game:

Additionally, the score from each level is summed and displayed on the level select screen with a progress bar, which completely fills at 1,160,000 points (much higher than the total of all required scores for Score Medals). Filing the bar will earn the player an award.

After earning a total of 300,000 points in Original 1985 mode, the Super Mario Bros. for Super Players mode is unlocked. This mode is a remake of Super Mario Bros.: The Lost Levels, and unlike the "Original 1985" mode, it only has one save slot.
Some adjustments were made from the original game. Worlds 9 through D are left unused in the game (though they do exist in the ROM). The wind feature and Luigi's unique physics were also removed, so certain levels had been altered to make it possible to go across some of the gaps.
In World 7-1 and World 8-1, it is no longer possible to receive a 1-Up by touching the flagpole when the coin count is a multiple of 11, with the digits matching the timer's last digit upon level completion.

By utilizing the Game Boy Color infrared port, two players can view and exchange each other's high scores on levels and game modes. Because the Nintendo 3DS uses different infrared technology from the Game Boy Color, it is not possible to exchange scores in the Virtual Console version.

After earning a total of 100,000 points in Original 1985 mode, the You VS. Boo mode is unlocked. This mode is extremely similar to VS Game in multiplayer, only this time, the player must race against a Boo. The Boo has a major advantage over the player, as it can pass through walls and obstacles without slowing down. However, the player is given option to start the race as Super Mario or Fiery Mario by pressing the  button. The player will then have to race against the Boo on a particular stage. Each stage is modeled after a certain level in the game, only with some modifications. Springboards and blocks inhabit the courses mostly, as the player is required to utilize these to traverse the course successfully. The player does not take damage from touching a Boo, because it is a competitor.
The Boo opponent appears in different colors. Depending on how quickly a level is finished, this determines if the Boo of the current color will float away, and if it is replaced with a Green Boo, a Red Boo, or a Black Boo. Each upgraded color will move considerably faster than the previous ones, and the Boo will move at a pace to reach a pre-determined finish time that correspond to its color. Beating the current color may not be sufficient to upgrade to a new color at all, if the finish times between Mario and Boo were too close. The Black Boo's speed is relative to the player's best time, so beating the Black Boo makes him faster the next time he is challenged. When the personal best time of a level is deleted, the opponent is reverted to the default white Boo.
A major part of the eight available levels is the Face Block and the very similar 3-2-1 Blocks, neither of which appear in the main game. Jumping into a Face Block or 3-2-1 will toggle whether Dotted-Line Blocks or Spike Traps are activated or not. The former can be toggled by jumping into them, but will be automatically toggled on at strategic times, whereas the latter will toggle every three seconds but can also be toggled the same way as for Face Blocks. There are almost no enemies except a few Piranha Plants and fake Bowsers.

This mode is almost the same as You VS. Boo, but it is not available on the 3DS Virtual Console port, due to no multiplayer support. By utilizing the Game Boy Color Link, two players can race head-to-head on a particular level. The levels are laid out identically to those featured in You VS. Boo mode. It is necessary to play this mode at least once to unlock two graphics in the Album. Only a few differences can be found between VS Game and You VS. Boo:

The Toy Box contains a large variety of different toys for the player to use. The majority of the items in the Toy Box must be unlocked, generally through game completion.

The Fortune Teller is a bonus mode that is accessible from the very start of the game. The player enters the Fortune Teller, pick a random card, and receive a fortune. There are five different varieties of fortunes: Extremely Lucky, Very Lucky, Lucky, Unlucky, and Extremely Unlucky. The only way that the Fortune Teller can actually affect gameplay is if the player receives an Extremely Lucky fortune and starts a new file; they start the new game with 10 lives, instead of just five.

The Mystery Room (or ? Room) is perhaps the most well-developed secret in the Toy Box. It contains a total of eight different options for the player to choose from. Each must be unlocked by rescuing a captive from a castle in Original 1985 mode. Whenever a Mushroom Retainer (or Princess Peach, as the case may be) is rescued from a castle, they will show up in the Mystery Room.

The Calendar is the only other feature that is located in the Toy Box to be accessible from the very start of the game. The main function of the calendar is to keep track of the days. The player could mark certain days on the calendar if they were a specific event, such as a birthday. The player can only mark 12 dates on the whole calendar. If the player wants to try to mark another, one of the dates has to be erased. It always has the same music as the Main Menu music.

By finding at least one Yoshi Egg in Challenge Mode, the player will unlock "Yoshi Is Here!", an optional feature helps the player find other Yoshi Eggs in various levels of Challenge Mode. It operates like a roulette, flashing random levels at a high speed. When the player presses , the screens will stop flipping. A brief snapshot will be shown of an area in a specified level, indicating that the level's Yoshi Egg can be found there; it is often near an object that did not appear in the original level. This mode has the same music as the Mystery Room menu.

Every printable icon is unlocked when Mario or Luigi rescue a Toad in World 5-4 of the "Original 1985" mode (Super Mario Bros.). They can be printed from the Game Boy Printer.

All of the Story Mode artwork is unlocked when Mario or Luigi rescue the Toad in World 6-4 of the "Original 1985" mode (Super Mario Bros.). These images can be printed with the Game Boy Printer.

Each banner is unlocked by rescuing a Mushroom Retainer from one of the castle levels.

The Japanese version was released nearly a year after the North American and European versions, and features some enhancements over earlier versions.

Super Mario Bros. Deluxe was very well-received by both fans and critics.

The game sold about 2.8 million copies in the United States.