Super Mario Bros. Print World is a Super Mario-themed printing program for home computers, allowing the player to print out artwork of various characters and elements from Super Mario Bros. 3 and Super Mario Land. It was developed by Hi Tech Expressions and released in the United States in 1991 for IBM and Tandy compatibles, as well as the Commodore 64 and Apple II. The title was only released in the United States; the MS-DOS version retailed for $19.99 and the Commodore 64 version retailed for $14.99.
Super Mario Bros. Print World is not a game, but a publishing application, with templates to make greeting cards, signs, posters, banners, and calendars, with a user guide on how to operate. The title is based on another Hi Tech Expressions title, Power Print, and has several variants based on themes other than Super Mario, including the NFL, Jim Henson's Muppets, The Addams Family, and Looney Tunes.

Now you're printing with power!
Mario, Luigi and the rest of the Super Mario Bros. gang take center stage in this powerful print program that lets you express your creativity in a fun and easy way. Create a merry Mario banner for a friend's homecoming, design a Koopa card for that loved one or make a Mushroom mask just for fun. You can even write and illustrate your very own storybook starring the beautiful Princess, then print it out for hours of coloring fun.
The possibilities are endless with Super Mario Bros. Print World-signs, stationery, cards, posters and banners are only the beginning, you can also printout puppets, bookmarks, masks and lots more for hours of creative fun!
The Super Mario Bros. Print World features:

Note: Every image name is as it appears in the software. Some titles do not accurately describe the images they correspond to.

These fonts were produced by Weatherly Systems, Inc., a now-defunct graphics design company. The font "Marquee" was a clone of Broadway, a typeface that has been widely used in entertainment-related contexts since it was designed in the late 1920s.

Super Mario Bros. Print World contains numerous errors and inconsistencies on the included graphics and their labels.