Super Mario Bros. Wonder is a side-scrolling platform game released worldwide for the Nintendo Switch on October 20, 2023. First announced during the June 2023 Nintendo Direct, it is the twenty-second installment in the Super Mario series and the first new full-fledged 2D Super Mario game since New Super Mario Bros. U released almost 11 years prior. It is also the first game to feature Kevin Afghani as the voice of Mario and Luigi, succeeding Charles Martinet, as well as the first game in the Super Mario franchise as a whole to be released since the initial release of Mario + Rabbids Sparks of Hope exactly one year prior.
A dedicated Nintendo Direct for the game titled the "Super Mario Bros. Wonder Direct" broadcasted on August 31, 2023 at 7:00 a.m. PT / 10:00 a.m. ET.

Mario, Luigi, Princess Peach, Princess Daisy, Yellow Toad, Blue Toad, and Toadette are invited to the Flower Kingdom, a neighbor to the Mushroom Kingdom ruled by Prince Florian. Florian shows off the Wonder Flower to his visitors, when suddenly, Bowser, Bowser Jr., and Kamek arrive. Bowser takes hold of the Wonder Flower, merging him, his Koopa Clown Car, and Florian's castle, the Flower Castle, to become Castle Bowser; he proceeds to spread havoc across the entire kingdom, including trapping the kingdom's inhabitants, the Poplins, in their homes. Not wanting to let this stand, Mario and company eagerly decide to help save the Flower Kingdom, and set off with Florian, who opts to be the gang's guide, to stop Bowser's plans once again. The group is closely followed by four Yoshis and Nabbit.
Mario and his allies journey through Pipe-Rock Plateau, Fluff-Puff Peaks, Shining Falls, Sunbaked Desert, Fungi Mines, and Deep Magma Bog, collecting the Royal Seed from each in order to remove the Cloud Piranhas protecting Castle Bowser, defeating an enhanced Bowser Jr. in four corrupted palaces and disabling three flying battleships summoned by Kamek in the process, before confronting Bowser within the castle from Petal Isles. After getting through some more of his defenses, Mario and his allies eventually defeat Castle Bowser, preventing him from using Wonder powers to terrorize the universe, and saving the Flower Kingdom, leaving the heroes, along with Florian and the Poplins, to celebrate.
Meanwhile, a post-credits scene shows Kamek attempting to carry Bowser Jr. and Bowser, who has reverted to his normal form, in the Koopa Clown Car; however, the weight is too heavy for Kamek and he sinks, causing them to crash into some hills near the Flower Castle.

Super Mario Bros. Wonder is a 2.5D-style platformer that supports both single-player gameplay and simultaneous multiplayer with up to 4 players. The game uses an updated artstyle, iterating on the New Super Mario Bros. series of games with brand-new models, expressions and animations. Alongside Mario and Luigi, several other characters are also playable, including Princess Peach, Princess Daisy, Yellow Toad, Blue Toad, Toadette, Yoshis of four different colors, and Nabbit. All characters use the established base moveset from the New Super Mario Bros. series, including the ability to Wall Jump, Ground Pound, and Spin Jump. Nabbit retains his ability to not take damage from enemies from previous games, simply phasing through enemies instead. The Yoshis also do not take damage, but bump into enemies upon colliding with them. The Yoshis retain their ability to Flutter Jump, be used as a mount for other characters, and use their tongue to swallow enemies and items. They can receive new abilities by consuming returning power-ups, as well as new ones like the Elephant Fruit. A new feature sees the characters equipping badges which allow them to obtain an additional special ability depending on which one is equipped, such as the Parachute Cap or the Scuttle.
The game's story takes place in the Flower Kingdom, a brand-new location. The game's levels incorporate similar general themes to the New Super Mario Bros. series, such as grassland, desert, and beach stages, but also unique level themes like autumnal forests and savannas. The hub consists of a contiguous world map, similar to that of New Super Mario Bros. U, where each level is represented by a 3D modeled icon, as in Super Mario 3D World. Similarly to both games, levels in this game have unique names. Each one is also assigned a difficulty rating in-game, from one to five. This is a feature only found previously in the Level Cards compatible with Super Mario Advance 4: Super Mario Bros. 3, as well as Super Mario Maker 2's Story Mode.
The signature feature of Super Mario Bros. Wonder is the Wonder Flower, a power-up that changes the world around Mario and friends in unique and strange ways, such as bringing Warp Pipes to life or causing Trottin' Piranha Plants to start singing. Wonder Flowers are exclusive to the Flower Kingdom, alongside Wonder Seeds and flower coins, prominent collectibles of the region. Another notable addition are Talking Flowers, non-playable characters that populate levels and comment on in-game events and players' actions.
This is the first 2D side-scrolling Super Mario game since Super Mario Bros. 2 to omit a score system and Time Limit, allowing players to explore levels for as long as they wish. When a character bounces off enemies or other objects repeatedly, ratings appear in the order "Good", "Great", "Super", "Fantastic", "Excellent", "Incredible", and "Wonderful"; from then on, any further action that continues the chain awards the player a 1-Up.

All actions using  can also be done with . Selecting the " Dash ·  Jump" option in the Settings menu will rotate all face buttons once to the left, with  functioning as  and  functioning as .

Counting the colored Toads and Yoshis separately, Super Mario Bros. Wonder features 12 playable characters, the most playable characters in a mainline Super Mario game. Among them, Daisy and the Yoshis are playable for the first time in a home console Super Mario game after being previously playable in Super Mario Run. Most characters have the same attributes and play identically aside from revealing different Hidden Character Blocks. The Yoshis and Nabbit do not take damage from most obstacles and enemies, but cannot transform using power-ups. Additionally, Nabbit does not flinch from attacks, while the Yoshis retain their ability to Flutter Jump, use their tongues, and allow other characters to ride them. The random option on the selection screen cannot select the Yoshis or Nabbit.
The following descriptions of the playable characters are taken from the loading screens.

The game is set in the Flower Kingdom, and has eight different worlds, consisting of six main, numbered worlds, a central world to which all of them connect called the Petal Isles, and the Special World. Each world contains a mix of both regular levels and smaller, bonus levels, of different types:

There is also a special bonus level known as Bonus: Coins Galore!, which contains many coins and flower coins for the player to collect. It appears when the player(s) receive(s) a Game Over, which causes a golden Propeller Flower to appear on the world map.
Each regular level contains two Wonder Seeds, one of which is obtained by finding the level's Wonder Flower and reaching the end of the Wonder Effect section, and the other obtained by reaching the end of the level and grabbing the Goal Pole. Some levels also have a hidden third Wonder Seed which is obtained by finding a secret exit. Bonus levels and palaces only have one Wonder Seed, the former of which is obtained by completing the level, and the latter of which stems from the Wonder Flower, while the end of palaces instead awards the player with a Royal Seed. Additionally, every regular level, Badge Challenge, and KO Arena level hides three 10-flower coins, which behave similarly to the Star Coins from the New Super Mario Bros. series, the Star Medals from Super Mario 3D Land, and the Green Stars from Super Mario 3D World.
Each location of the Flower Kingdom has a corresponding color for its Wonder Flowers, Wonder Seeds, and Wow Buds.

New items and objects are indicated by an asterisk (*).

A new element in this game are badges, which are similar to those from the Paper Mario and Mario & Luigi series. Obtained either by completing a Badge Challenge or buying them with flower coins in a Poplin Shop, the player can equip their character with a badge before starting a course or after losing a life. There are a total of twenty-four badges, including nine Action Badges, which add new abilities to the characters, eleven Boost Badges, which assist the player during gameplay, and four Expert Badges, which grant an advanced skill to the characters.

Super Mario Bros. Wonder was produced by Takashi Tezuka and directed by Shiro Mouri, who previously served as the programming director for New Super Mario Bros. U and director for New Super Mario Bros. U Deluxe. This is the first game in the Mario franchise to feature Kevin Afghani as the voice of Mario and Luigi, succeeding Charles Martinet, who voiced the brothers since Mario in Real Time in 1991. It is also the first game to feature Giselle Fernandez as the voice of Daisy in lieu of Deanna Mustard, who voiced the character since 2003's Mario Golf: Toadstool Tour; and Dawn M. Bennett as Nabbit.

Takashi Tezuka began conceptualizing ideas for Super Mario Bros. Wonder during the development of Super Mario Maker 2. He had already planned for the game to be very different from the Super Mario Maker games which was further motivated by public sentiment saying the Super Mario Maker games eliminated the need for another 2D Super Mario game. Shiro Mouri also said that the game should run on a new engine during the beginning of development. In order for the developers to reach Tezuka's proposal, no deadline was given. They held an idea-sharing session in order to come up with ideas that would surprise players, a strategy used during the creation of 3D Super Mario games. Koji Kondo even suggested some ideas, including that Mario be transformed into an anatomically realistic version of himself. In the end, they ended up with over 2,000 ideas written down on sticky notes.
One of the ideas Masanobu Sato had come up with was warping the player to another world after collecting an item. Tezuka dismissed the idea since warping to a different location has already been used in the games and instead suggested that the level itself transforms. After making a prototype where a Warp Pipe moves like a creature, Mouri came up with the central theme where the world would dramatically change in a way unseen in previous games. They contextualized this radical change through the Wonder Effect mechanic. To compliment this change, the soundscape also changed to be more unconventional. More emphasis is given to environmental sounds and sound effects and the background music incorporates digital synthesizers, contrasting against the analog synthesizer used in New Super Mario Bros.
The increased expressiveness in the animations was inspired by The Super Mario Bros. Movie. Tezuka comments that new players will expect Mario to animate similarly to how he does in the movie. He later clarifies that the developers did not know the specifics of the movie and were just aware that new players would base their expectations of the game on the movie. With the increased detail in the animations, the number of animations and joints on the models have more than doubled when compared to New Super Mario Bros. U.

By pre-ordering the game through GameStop, customers received an exclusive sticker set depicting the playable characters, a Wonder Flower, and a Talking Flower.

By pre-ordering the game through Walmart's website, customers received a trading card pack, each containing ten cards randomly pulled from a total of 20 difference cards to get. All of the possible cards that were distributed in the card packs include 15 base cards, 4 holofoil cards, and a limited edition holofoil card depicting Elephant Mario with only 1,000 produced.
At Target, an exclusive shadowbox collectable depicting the game's main artwork could be received with purchase of the game in-store.
By pre-ordering the game through Best Buy's website, customers received a free art print with the game's main artwork.
In Canada, customers were given a free Elephant Mario keychain as a pre-order bonus for the game at GameStop. Those who pre-ordered the game at Walmart received an exclusive pop-out magnetic set.
An Elephant Fruit stress ball was initially announced as a pre-order bonus for certain retailers in multiple regions, including the My Nintendo Store in Europe (alongside pins of an Elephant Fruit, Talking Flower, and Wonder Flower), GAME in the UK, and JB Hi-Fi in Australia, though it was later canceled due to production issues. My Nintendo Store customers instead only received the pins, while the stress ball was replaced by the same pins with GAME and a pin of Elephant Mario with JB Hi-Fi. A bundle containing the game, a Talking Flower resin figure, 2D diorama, and magnets using the game's promotional artwork is also available at the My Nintendo Store in the UK and Ireland. Customers in Australia who pre-ordered the game through EB Games received the same pins as Europe's My Nintendo Store and GAME.
In Italy, a "Super Mario Immersive Hub" was open in Milan on October 14 and 15, in which the game's demo could be played. A promotional event made in collaboration with soccer club Catania FC took place at Stadio Angelo Massimino in Catania on October 22.
Advertisements for the game were shown in Times Square.

Super Mario Bros. Wonder received critical acclaim, with an aggregate score of 92 out of 100 based on 130 reviews on aggregator Metacritic, the highest for a 2D Super Mario Bros. title since New Super Mario Bros., released in 2006 for the Nintendo DS.

Super Mario Bros. Wonder was nominated for five awards at The Game Awards 2023, in the following categories:

The game would go on to win "Best Family Game", though it lost "Game of the Year" and "Best Multiplayer" to Baldur's Gate 3 and "Best Game Direction" and "Best Art Direction" to Alan Wake 2.

Super Mario Bros. Wonder sold 4.3 million units worldwide within the first two weeks, making it the "biggest release" and "fastest-selling" Super Mario-related title ever.
As of March 31, 2024, the game had sold 13.44 million units worldwide.

Two players are required to perform this glitch.
The player must complete the first three levels of the game to have access to the rest of World 1, then reach the end of the level Break Time! Hurry, Hurry. The player must add a second player and have them collect the Wonder Seed. On the map, the player who has the crown has to move towards the Badge House to the west of the level. The player without the crown must move to the north east, so that they are not visible on the screen. Once this is done, the player has to reselect the characters. The character who did not have the crown will teleport to the one who did have it, but will be able to move out of bounds. Using the character with the crown as a guide to better visualize, the player has to guide the character without the crown to the bottom past the cloud, where the player must reselect and choose only the character who is out of bounds. There will be a point when the character has to jump to be able to bypass the Wonder Packun. A cutscene will cause the character to be stuck in place, so the player will have to repeat the process, since this time the cutscene will not appear; after this, the character will be able to access the entrance of Petal Isles. Although World 1 is not completed, Florian's cutscene will play out as normal, and the Royal Seed will eliminate one of the Cloud Piranhas, even though the player did not collect it.
To skip World 2, the player must continue playing until they clear the level Blewbird Roost to unlock the island that leads to World 2, where they must add a second character again. One of the players has to stand at the beginning of the path (but from the island where the two players are) and the other character has to be up to the north-west (north-east side for the player), jump and open the menu while in the air. Reselecting the two players again, the character who was at the beginning of the path has to move down and the one who was next to the Wonder Packun will follow them, but will be out of bounds. The player must carefully move the character that is out of bounds to the island to the east and enter any level. Both players have to leave the level and clear the Wiggler Race level Swimming!, after which players will have access to the next part of Petal Isles, skipping the completion of World 2.
To skip World 3, the player must collect all eight Wonder Seeds to access said world. When the player has passed Master Poplin's House, they have to add the second player again. The player must move one of the characters to the first golden square and move the second player to the level to the south. Players have to reselect the characters and the one that was at the bottom will be out of bounds. Going to the north west will allow the character who was out of bounds to access the pipe that leads to World 4, skipping the rest of World 3. The player will be stuck because they never opened the door, but by entering the only level there and losing all lives, the character will be in the same world but from outside the door, leaving free access to the rest of the world. Returning to Petal Isles, the game will never tell the player the name of World 4 (this also happens in World 3) and the player will no longer be able to return to World 4. The player will only be able to return to World 4 (in this state) by selecting a level in that world, as long as the player has passed it. Beating the palace in World 4 will make the game believe that the other three worlds have already been beaten.
When World 6 has been cleared, the player will have access to Castle Bowser even though there are still two Cloud Piranhas surrounding him.
This glitch works because the game only checks that the last three Royal Seeds have been obtained before allowing access to Castle Bowser.
This glitch was patched in the version 1.0.1 update, released on November 21, 2023.