Super Mario-kun Volume 9 is the ninth volume of the manga series. It contains the full Yoshi's Safari story arc, with elements from Yoshi's Cookie, Super Mario World, Super Mario Land 2: 6 Golden Coins, Mario Bros., and even the Super Mario Bros. movie; the first part of the Mario & Wario arc; and the third part of the Super Mario Land 2: 6 Golden Coins story arc, in which Mario, Carrot, Yokkī, and Hippo chase Tatanga in the last area, the Space Zone. The last chapter is a bonus story of the Super Mario Land 2: 6 Golden Coins story arc starring Wario and his Goomba assistant. This volume's extras are puzzles and riddles.

マリオ復ふっ活かつ!! クリスタルキノコを探さがしだせ!! (Mario's back!! Find the Crystal Mushrooms!!)
After so many adventures, Mario has decided to quit being a hero and is enjoying selling cookies with Yoshi and Luigi to the inhabitants of Yoshi's Island. After Luigi becomes stuck inside the freezer and Yoshi eats all the cookies, Mario closes the baking stand for the day and continues to refuse his friends' suggestions to return to adventuring. A flying Message Block arrives. Inside, Mario finds a videotape of Peach asking Mario for help: the world is in chaos, many of the old enemies have come back, and the only one that can solve this situation is Super Mario, by searching and collecting the three Crystal Kinokos to stop this disaster.
Even if unwillingly, and even without putting on his iconic overalls and changing from his chef outfit, Mario accepts to accompany Luigi and Yoshi in this adventure. Riding the Sky Pop, the three fly towards a large stormy black cloud in what seems to be the concentration of chaos. Just before they can start landing, a giant Battle Beetle catches them in the air, destroying the plane, and slamming the occupants into the ground.
Mario, much to Luigi and Yoshi's shock, does not fight him and instead offers it cookies. The Battle Beetle punches him, sending him flying against a ? Block, revealing a Carrot inside that falls on Mario, turning him into Bunny Mario (and also changing his outfit). With nostalgia from the Super Mario Land 2: 6 Golden Coins events pervading him, Mario finds the lost sparks and starts fighting, but since he has not used the power-ups in a while, he stumbles and falls. The Battle Beetle uses its mandible to trap Mario, but with the power of his ears, Mario breaks free and destroys the mandible, defeating the enemy. The adventure has just begun, and Mario is now ready to strike back.

荒こう野やの決けっ闘とう!! 花はなも雷かみなりもふみこえて!? (Battle in the wilderness!! Overlooking flowers and thunder!?)
Mario, Luigi, and Yoshi are traversing a dry plain where once, as Mario states, it was the place where the most beautiful and gorgeous flowers and cherry blossom trees grew. One flower, however, does pop from the ground, but it is not a normal flower: it is a Panser. The enemy first shoots what it seems to be fireballs, but are instead tadpoles, so when it shoots the actual fireballs, Mario is caught off-guard. Mario and his friends try to run away from the Panser, but the enemy is able to walk and runs in front of them, burning Luigi and Yoshi. Quickly, Mario ties the Panser's petals right when he was preparing to shoot another round of fireballs, which burst and neutralize it.
Yoshi sighs in relief, but from a Warp Pipe, a Venus Fire Trap, followed by Munchers and Nipper Plants, comes out and attacks them. With a Fire Flower, Mario becomes Fire Mario and burns all the plants (and also Yoshi and Luigi). With the plant family defeated, Mario uproots the Venus Fire Trap out of the pipe, revealing a bunch of Monty Moles gripping the stem. Yoshi proceeds eating the Moles when lightning strikes down, right on the body of a mole and each type of plant, fusing them together into the Pakkun Mogura, a Mega Mole with Venus Fire Traps for hands and a Piranhacus Giganticus on its head.
Mario tosses Yoshi at the monster, but the Venus Fire Trap hands chomp and burn him. Mario then tries to smack him with the hammer, but is burned by the Venus Fire Trap hands again. After pulling himself up, Mario pulls out the cookie stand's oven from Yoshi's mouth and gets the Yoshi Cookies inside, then proceeds to toss them at the Pakkun Mogura, in a Slave attack: now the enemy and Yoshi are bound to move the same way and feel the same things. Slamming Yoshi's face to a rock, making him pick his nose and slamming him to the ground, the Pakkun Mogura is forced to do the same thing and is defeated. Mario is ready to continue the journey, but then asks where Yoshi has gone, much to Luigi's confusion, since Mario has just slammed him into the ground some seconds ago.

呪のろわれたクッパ城じょう!? 妖よう精せいキャサリン登とう場じょう!! (Cursed Bowser Castle!? Fairy Birdo Appears!!)
Mario, Luigi, and Yoshi are still looking for the Crystal Kinoko, yet they have no idea where to find even one of them. Having gone in circles for a while, the trio meets a fairy: it is Birdo, the same Birdo that last volume died and is now reincarnated as a fairy. Birdo's ribbon is now magical and can point them out in the direction of the Crystal Kinoko so, under payment of 1 coin per mile, Birdo leads them to the first location of the mushroom: the ruins of Bowser's Castle in the Valley of Bowser.
While looking in the debris, Luigi is attacked by a sentient block. Many other blocks come to life and attack the group. Yoshi tries to eat one of them, but they are too hard for his teeth. Very soon, Mario is overwhelmed by them. Birdo finds one of Kamek's Magic Wands and passes it to Mario, who turns the angry block into calm Koopa Troopas that Yoshi proceeds to eat.
With the situation calmed down, Birdo locates the Crystal Kinoko but, before Mario can reach it, one of the kart circuits’ Thwomp appears and chases Mario. The chase takes Mario right to the same racetrack where Mario was challenged by Donkey Kong Jr. in the sixth volume. Mario runs towards a ? Panel and obtains a Lightning. He uses it to shrink the Thwomp and then crushes it under his foot. In the meantime, Luigi got the Crystal Kinoko. Mario then asks Birdo where the next destination is, but she reveals that she is now charging 2 coins per mile, angering Mario.

そうなんです!? 流ながれ流ながされ恐きょう竜りゅう島じまへ!! (Is that so!? Washed away to Dinosaur Island!!)
Some days later, after resting in a wooden cabin, the party wakes up in the middle of the ocean: somehow, their cabin was swept away and ended up in the sea. Not seeing the shadow of an island, Birdo gets higher, trying to take a better look and spot an island. Left alone, the three heroes are attacked by a shark. Mario manages to defeat it by tossing Yoshi in its mouth, somehow killing him. Suddenly, a storm arises and sweeps away the raft and its occupants.
The three find themselves beached in a strange beach. While exploring the land, what seems to be a boulder rolls towards them, running over Luigi. After noticing that the boulder smells awful, the heroes notice it is not a rock, but feces pooped by a giant Rex in a latrine. A giant Dino-Torch appears and burns them with its fire breath, then a Rex notices them and attempts to eat them. Running away, the three attract the attention of a giant Blargg and a giant Reznor as well.
Their escape is cut short when a giant Carrot blocks their path, but instead of giving up, Mario bites the giant Carrot, becoming Bunny Mario, but with gigantic bunny ears. The giant dinosaurs reach them, but they are all crushed by Mario's large ears after he loses balance and falls. With the hit to their head, the dinosaurs are now gentle and kind and no longer angry and famished. An idea pops in Mario's head and, by the time Birdo finally manages to find them, Mario has already transformed the island into a lucrative "Dinosaur Park".

ザ・ガマン!?三番ばん勝しょう負ぶでチャンプを目め指させ!! (The Games!? Aim for the champ in the third round!!)
While traversing a desert in search of the second Crystal Kinoko, the party come across a lake. Mario and Yoshi try to drink from it, but they are attacked by a Dossunmengyo. Running away in fear, the four find a sign explaining that the Koopa Troop has organized a series of competitions, in which the winner will receive a Crystal Kinoko. Without thinking twice, the party runs to enter the competition.
The Goomba referee takes them to the first challenge that has to do with food. Yoshi volunteers for it, thinking it will be an eating competition, while in reality, much to his shock, it is a no-eating contest. Yoshi tries to refrain himself, but he gives up and loses the challenge. The challenge is "Karaoke" and Birdo volunteers after seeing that the adversary is a Buzzy Beetle, but unfortunately for her, the competition is not about singing, but about surviving Mike Kirby's scream, which she loses, while the Buzzy Beetle gets out undamaged thanks to its hard shell. Mario and Luigi understand that they have to be prepared for anything in the next challenge, but their challenge is straightforward: resisting longer in the lava, and their adversaries are a Blargg and a Lava Bubble.
The heroes have lost, and not only they will not get the prize Crystal Kinoko, but their own Crystal Kinoko is snatched away by Bowser, who has been enjoying the show from his Koopa Clown Car. Bowser then reveals that his plan is to collect all the Crystal Kinoko and use their power to go on vacation in Hawaii. Mario yells that they need those mushrooms for a much serious cause, but being fine with the world in chaos, Bowser intends to stop Mario and his friends, so he pulls out a Devolution Gun and shoots at them: Luigi is turned into a monkey, while Yoshi does not change ("I guess we Yoshis never evolved."), and Mario, having dodged the shot, got a Tanooki Suit and transformed into Tanooki Mario to confuse Bowser.
Bowser does not get confused for long and flips the Clown Car to crush Mario under some Big Steelies, but they all fall on the tail, which becomes larger due to the bumps. With a large tail whip, Mario defeats Bowser, who flies away in fear, and breaks the Devolution Gun, reverting the effects on Luigi. Just then, Yoshi realizes that Bowser, even if defeated, just got away with the Crystal Kinoko, leaving Mario in shock, while Luigi yells at him.

スーパースコープ登とう場じょう!! 機械の国メカランドを突とっ破ぱせよ!! (The Super Scope is here!! Break through the mecha-land!!)
Mario and his friends follow Bowser and arrive in Jewelry Land. Yoshi asks to take a break and eat some berries he picked up on the way, but as soon as they bite into them, Mario and Yoshi realize the berries are made of metal, and not just that: the entire place is made out of metal, from the tree to the animals. A walking TV appears and pleads the heroes for their help: he presents himself as King Fret, the Jewelry Land leader that, just like the rest of the land, has turned into machinery due to the chaos afflicting the Mushroom Kingdom, and Bowser took advantage of that to create a new base in Jewelry Land.
The party decides to help them, but suddenly, Luigi and Birdo are turned into machines: Fret explains that this is the effect of eating the "machined" food, but apparently, Mario and Yoshi's doltishness makes them immune to the transformation. To help Mario and Yoshi in their journey, Fret lends them a Super Scope, their most powerful weapon. Mario and Yoshi begin their journey and are faced by a group of Paragoombas. Mario tries to shoot them with the Scope, but since he holds it backwards, Mario and Yoshi are instead launched forward, passing the Paragoombas.
They land right in front of Ludwig, riding his brontosaurus-like mecha. Mario shoots at it, but Ludwig reveals that the mecha is invulnerable, except for the lightbulb on the back. Mario shoots at it, destroying it and leaving only the mecha's spherical pilot cabin. The cabin grows arms and legs and Ludwig shoots the limbs at Mario and Yoshi, but then realizes his mistake after he remained with the defenseless and rolling cabin. Mario takes advantage of the situation, but the Super Scope is unloaded. Yoshi then notices a Flying ? Block with a Super Mushroom inside that replenishes the Scope ammunition, and with that, Mario defeats Ludwig and his robot, obtaining a Crystal Kinoko in possession of the Koopaling.
Meanwhile, Birdo and Luigi, incapacitated from walking, are watching a soccer match on Fret's monitor.

おにぎりころりん!?食くい意い地じ地ち底てい対たい決けつ!! (Onigiri rice ball!? Gluttonous underground confrontation!!)
Bowser's Castle is in sight, so Mario and Yoshi decide to take a break and eat some onigiri. Yoshi excitedly jumps on the onigiri, hitting the plate and making the two onigiri roll down a hole. Being hungry and being incapacitated from eating the local food, Yoshi follows the onigiri. In the underground, the two find one onigiri, but immediately after, a press squashes them, flattening the onigiri, much to Yoshi's sadness. Right after, two spiked walls close in on the two, but Mario manages to stop them using Yoshi as a staff.
Iggy is revealed to be behind the traps, and he also shows to have the second onigiri, angering Yoshi. Iggy flees from Yoshi's fireballs in a lake, where King Gessō, a mechanical Blooper, emerges. Yoshi is not scared by the robot until all the tentacles start shooting at him. Mario tries to use the Super Scope, but is zapped by the tentacles' bullets. Mario falls on the ground, but the Super Scope, seemingly on his own, grabs a Super Mushroom, absorbs it and shoots Mario, turning him into Super Mario. With a punch, Mario destroys the tentacles, but King Gessō is still functioning and shooting ink and flames from its snout.
The Super Scope, once again, solves the situation by plugging itself into King Gessō's mouth and shooting, making the robot explode. Iggy raises the white flag and gives up the onigiri. Yoshi is happy again, but then has to fight with the Super Scope for the onigiri.

クッパ城じょう突とつ入にゅう!! メカクッパをたおせ!! (Entering Bowser Castle!! Let's go, Mecha-Bowser!!)
Mario and Yoshi reach Bowser's Castle. Mario congratulates Yoshi with a shoulder pat, and it is then where he realizes Yoshi turned into a machine: apparently his hunger was more powerful than his "stupid-immunity". Inside the castle, Mario asks Yoshi if he is uncomfortable in his robot form, but Yoshi admits that he is actually comfy, and also can store their Crystal Kinoko in a safe place (a safe place where his butt once was). When Yoshi shows the Crystal Kinoko to Mario, a boomerang snatches it away and takes the relic to a Boomerang Bro.
Mario arms himself with the Super Scope, but the weapon is tired and exhausted. Laughing, the Boomerang Bro tosses his boomerang once more and cuts off Yoshi's head, which the boomerang returns to the sender, hitting the Boomerang Bro in the head and knocking him out. Mario recuperates the Crystal Kinoko with Yoshi's head (that he reattaches to his body) and the Super Scope (who took a nap).
The heroes finally arrive at the final room, where Bowser, in his heavy and armed armor, is waiting for them. With the Super Scope still unloaded, Mario sends Mecha Yoshi in battle, but he runs out of batteries and stops moving. Mario gets shot and slammed by the Armored Bowser, but he gets up and, using the Scope as a club, destroys the cannons in the armor's gauntlets. Bowser then activates another cannon placed in his belly and shoots at Mario, who takes cover behind Yoshi's unmoving body. Furious, Bowser shoots another round of missiles, and they all end up in the Super Scope. With the weapon finally loaded, Mario shoots the missiles back at Bowser and defeats him, recovering the remaining Crystal Kinoko. The three relics, finally together, activate their power and Mario wishes for the chaos to end once and for all.
Yoshi returns to normal, as well as the Super Scope (who is revealed to be King Fret's son, Prince Pine), Luigi, Birdo, and Jewelry Land's citizens. With peace restored, Birdo disappears and Mario and his friends return to baking cookies (only in their free time from adventuring) using Bowser's armor (with him still inside) as the new baking oven.

骨こつ肉にくの争あらそい!? バトルドームの大だいバトル!! (Battle of bones and flesh!? Battle Dome's big battle!!)
Mario, Luigi, and Yoshi are enjoying a weekend on the beach of Yoshi's Island when Bowser arrives riding his Koopa Clown Car, taking with him a Cheep Cheep balloon that he calls a "Battle Dome". Bowser tosses the Cheep Cheep balloon at them, and the three find themselves in a Mario Bros. arena. Bowser then releases something that would help them battle: Battle kin, a type of spore that will increment their violence levels. After accidentally releasing on Mario the Futoru kin (that makes him momentarily fat), Luigi and Yoshi are infected by the Battle kin and start beating each other, while Mario, thanks to his own Omanuke kin, is protected from the spore.
Bowser then starts filling the dome with enemies such as Sidesteppers, Spinies and Fighter Flies. Luigi and Yoshi, while defeating enemies and collecting coins to prove who is better, continue punching each other. To stop this madness, Mario hits the POW Block in the center of the arena and gets a Super Mushroom from a pipe that lands right on one of his Omanuke Kins that enlarges so much that it absorbs Luigi and Yoshi, eliminating their Battle kin.
Finally working as a team, Mario and his friends quickly defeat the remaining enemies, so Bowser sends his trump card: a Shellcreeper. Mario flips him over with no problem, but when the Shellcreeper flips back on, he summons the Mecha Nokonoko and attacks them with it. Having no chance against a battle mecha, Luigi suggests looking for a ? Kinoko in one of the pipes, so as to switch powers with the Shellcreeper, but encounters a Boo that pushes him back in the arena. The Mecha Nokonoko sends Mario flying against one of the platforms' blocks, revealing a ? Kinoko inside, but before he can grab it, the mushroom enters a pipe, turning it into a giant Super Scope. With that, Mario, Luigi and Yoshi shoot and defeat Mecha Nokonoko and destroy the dome. Bowser is shocked, but his troubles are not over yet: the Futoru kin landed right on him, making him fat. Luigi and Yoshi laugh at him, but then they have to run away when Mario chases them with the Super Scope to punish them for defeating him under the Battle kin's influence.

マリオとワリオ!! お先さきまっ暗くらルイージ探さがし!? (Mario & Wario!! Looking for Luigi in the dark!?)
Peach is enjoying her "forced stay" in Bowser's Castle, but the Koopa Troop can not take her antics anymore, so they let her have a walk in the park alone. Suddenly, Wario, riding his Bulldog, appears and tosses a bucket on Peach's head which she can not remove. Bowser witnesses the fact and yells at Wario that, in response to the threats, tosses another bucket at him, but it is too small for Bowser's head. Wario flies away, revealing that "Luigi is the key to removing the bucket".
Without thinking twice, Bowser departs for Yoshi's Island, where the Mario Bros. are supposed to be. Bowser finds Yoshi and orders him to take them to Mario and Luigi. Yoshi takes him to Mario, who has suffered the same fate as Peach. However, Mario is already looking for a way to free himself from the bucket, having found the mystical fairy of the Yōsei no Mori: Wanda. Thanks to her, Mario can lift the bucket just enough to see under it, but still cannot quite remove it. Bowser walks towards them to brainstorm an idea, but trips and falls flat on Wanda, crushing her. This, however, does not kill her, but fuses the two together. With Bowser now in control of Wanda's body, the gang has to think of a new plan to remove Mario and Peach's buckets, so Bowser reveals what Wario said to him and they all go look for Luigi.
Wanda suggests Bowser to help Mario walking by making sure the terrain is safe for him, but he is good with magic, continuing making Mario trip or fall under a block that Bowser-Wanda failed to make appear in time. Wario spots them and decides to make their journey less calm by activating Mario's bucket. The bucket comes to life and starts biting Mario's head. Bowser tries to help him by hitting the bucket, but he accidentally makes the Rock Block under Mario disappear, making him plummet right on some Spike Traps that sends Mario flying straight into a ceiling, hitting his head on it and hurting the bucket as well. This makes the cursed bucket let go of Mario, finally free.
The bucket tries to return on Mario's head, but Bowser summons a poop on Mario's head, disgusting the bucket. After transforming into a butt and farting away the poop and the group against a wall, knocking them down, the bucket attempts to attack Mario again. Quickly, Mario grabs the block below him and plugs it into the bucket and, luckily for him, it is a Coin Block. Grabbing Wanda's wand, Mario hits the Coin Block, making it pour out all the coins inside the bucket, bursting it. Wario flies away in defeat, while the group continues their search for Luigi, who, unbeknownst to them, just passed by on a block bridge under them.

ワリオのプレゼント!?大だい?恐きょう竜りゅうをたおせ!! (Wario's gift!? Great? Give me a dinosaur!!)
Luigi, unaware of being the most wanted person in the kingdom, is headed for the Yosu Ko where, coincidentally, Mario, Yoshi and Bowser-Wanda are also headed, helping Bowser master Wanda's magic to avoid any more accidents like creating a Jump Block below the ceiling. Once the group arrives at the lake, they are welcomed by the Star World's Yoshis, who are enjoying a Christmas vacation, even setting up a Kadomatsu. Suddenly, Wario, dressed up like Santa Claus, comes on his Bulldog ready to share his presents: a new type of bucket shaped like a Yoshi's Eggshell. Mario attempts to destroy the eggshell with a Super Scope, but fails in saving the Yoshis and Bowser-Wand from getting the buckets on their heads. Mario later suffers their same fate after he slips on a banana peel and straight into a bucket.
Wario flies away happily, while Mario and his friends try to come up with a plan. Bowser-Wanda locates a Rock Block and brings it above the others and breaks it. The debris destroys the buckets, but also hurts everyone, the reason why an angered Mario tosses a rock to Bowser-Wanda, breaking his bucket and hurting him in the process. The troubles, however, have just begun: the eggshell pieces come and fuse together forming Tamagodon, a giant and sentient soup tureen made out of eggshells.
Mario and the Yoshis laugh at this silly-looking enemy, angering it and making it spill thick soup all over them. The four Yoshis quickly eat it, freeing everyone, but they all become fat from eating so much and can no longer move. Tamagodon then proceeds to attack Mario with his electric sight. Bowser-Wanda attempts to help him escape, but he then activates a Timer Block that disappears after Mario stands on it, making him fall to the ground. Tamagodon tosses at him some eggshells that pin Mario to the wall and zap him.
The Yoshis must do something to help him and Yoshi is already on it, having reached, with some hiccups, the Kadomatsu. After grabbing the Star on top, he passes it to Mario. Mario becomes invincible, and the eggshell that was restraining him not so long ago is now an armor with star-shaped spots. With the eggshells, Mario shields himself from Tamagodon's zaps and uses the star-shaped spots as projectiles, blowing up the enemy, revealing a Dodorigesu Jr. inside. The Yoshis roast the Pidgit and feast on him while Mario and Bowser-Wanda celebrate. Meanwhile, not one soul notices Luigi buried under the debris of the Rock Block Bowser-Wanda destroyed.

マリオ宇う宙ちゅうへ!! 勇ゆう者しゃヒポポン大だい活かつ躍やく!? (To Space Zone!! Heroic Hippo's great success!?)
Mario, Carrot, and Yokkī are recapping the situation: to access Wario's Castle, they need the 6 Golden Coins. They now possess five: only one remains. After Mario shows Carrot that he stored the Golden Coins inside Yokkī, the latter is taken by some strange force that raises him up: it is a gravitational ray coming from the Pagosu, Tatanga's spaceship. Mario tries to rescue his friend and the coins, but Tatanga slams him to the ground, breaking Yokkī and flying away with the Golden Coins, cackling. After rebuilding Yokkī, Mario realizes that Tatanga must have gone to the last zone of Mario Land: the Space Zone.
The only way to reach the Space Zone is via the Bubbles produced by the Hippo statue's snout. After Mario chants a spell wearing the Tanooki Suit, the Hippo statue produces the bubbles in which they will reach space. Their journey is, however, cut short when they come across a group of Unibo that burst their bubbles, plunging them into the sea below. In the water, the party is ambushed by Cheep Cheeps and more Unibo, when the Hippo statue, who came to life thanks to the spell, suddenly comes to their aid by defeating the enemies and creating a new bubble from its butt. This almost kills Mario and his friends, but the smell does keep the Unibo away, letting them reach the Space Zone.
After Mario quickly procures a space suit to survive the lack of oxygen, he, Carrot, and Yokkī continue the chase for Tatanga. They are suddenly ambushed by No.48 who keeps shooting stars at them, alongside the Leo and Virgo constellations. While No.48 prepares to attack them with the Sagittarius constellation, Hippo comes to Mario's aid once more by passing him a striped rod and pointing a ? Block above. Mario stabs the block, finding a Super Star inside it, and fuses the rod and the star together, creating a Star Rod. With his aura, No.48's stars are flashed and knocked out, and the enemy is defeated. Mario and his friends thank Hippo and let him join the party.

月がつ面めん最さい終しゅう決けっ戦せん!! 強きょう敵てきタタンガをたおせ!! (The final battle on the moon!! Defeat the powerful enemy Tatanga!!)
It is flu season and Wario is not feeling well, being bedridden and his nose pouring mucus non-stop. His conditions do not improve when he learns that Mario is chasing the last of his bosses down to retrieve the last Golden Coin. Meanwhile, even Mario is a bit sick, which he excuses with the cold temperature of space. Mario decides to rest on a floating platform, but it is revealed to be a Tosenbo who prickles him. Hippo stops the enemy by freezing him with his mucus, then asks Yokkī to use his fire breath to warm Mario up, healing him from the cold.
After neutralizing the Tosenbo, Hippo ties it up and forces it to tell them where Tatanga is. The Tosenbo tells them that Tatanga is hiding in the star stage. The group reaches the level and starts looking for the alien when Yokkī suddenly starts bouncing up and down, hitting Mario and the others. After a laser beam comes out from Yokkī's mouth, Mario notices that Tatanga hid the Pagosu inside Yokkī, and he is using him as a shield. After Mario knocks out Yokkī with a fireball, Tatanga comes out of him and the battle properly begins.
Mario tries to grab him, but slams against a rock, Hippo tries to freeze him with mucus like he did with the Tosenbo, but hits his friends instead. Tatanga then shoots moon cutters at Mario, tearing his space suit and cracking his helmet. Mario and Hippo toss the moon cutters back, finally pinching him, but Tatanga then shoots a spherical projectile that Yokkī grabs with his mouth. Just then, Tatanga reveals that it is a firework and the explosion sends Yokkī, Carrot, Hippo, and Mario so high in the sky that they land back to Earth. Tatanga laughs in delight, holding the 6 Golden Coins, but he is suddenly attacked by someone.
Back to Earth, Mario and Carrot admit defeat, but a few minutes later, Santa Claus, riding a sleigh tow by some Koopa Paratroopas, appears. Mario is not in the mood, but Yokkī asks if they can have the 6 Golden Coins as a present, which Santa agrees, giving the Coins to them. Mario thanks him and, after Santa leaves, it is revealed that he was none other than Bowser, feeling good due to the Christmas spirit. Meanwhile, Tatanga has just recovered from the pounding Bowser gave him, realizing that someone robbed him.

怪かい力りきワリオくん (Super Wario-kun)
Wario and his Goomba assistant are on the look for a pirate treasure located in the sea of Turtle Zone. The two dive in the water and, following Wario's instinct, arrives at a rock wall. Wario destroys it and zaps the debris before they can be hurt with the Tetris Wario powers.
The two finally arrive at the sunken pirate ship and are immediately attacked by a group of Cheep Cheeps which Wario quickly takes care of. Another enemy appears: it is an octopus, who Wario defeats by lifting an underwater volcano with his bare hands and tossing it at him.
Wario finds the treasure chest and opens it, but inside, he only finds a Boo telling him he lost: he chose the wrong chest. Wario and the Goomba return home, telling the octopus and the fish, much to their disappointment, that tomorrow they will redo this "pretend treasure hunt". Mario and Yokkī appear and ask if they can join the game as well.

アイテム迷めい路ろ (Power-up maze): Please tell me what kind of power-ups are in the blocks 1 to 5.
OXOX!: Mario taped Yoshi's mouth to help him with his diet. Which tape was put first?
四番ばん目めはだれだ? (Who is fourth?): The members of the Koopa Troop are racing. Looking at the four pictures on the left, can you tell who is fourth in line?
まちがいさがし (Find the differences):

マリオの通とおり道みち (Mario's path): Let's reach Yoshi by sneaking behind and beside and not in front the Koopa Troopas.
マリオをさがせ!! (Find Mario!!): Well… How many Marios are here? [including the transformations]
ブルの無む限げん増ぞう殖しょく (Chargin' Chuck's infinite duplication): This is Splittin' Chuck, who loves to duplicate; every minute, one Chuck splits into three and three Chucks split into nine, and it continues until he fills the screen in an hour. So, how many minutes did it take them to fill one-third of the screen?
のろまなハナチャン (Slow Wiggler): "Peach has gone for a walk outside. Can you keep an eye on her?" "Sure." […] "It's late. What is Wiggler doing?" "Your majesty!" "Finally, you returned, at last!" "Well, then. I'm on my way! Now, here is the question: Why did it take me so long to go out?" "Get going, already!"
ピーチ姫ひめの手て紙がみ (Princess Peach's letter): I received a strange letter from Princess Peach. What is it written on? Do you understand?

As shown in the figure below.
22 Marios! I wonder if you spotted Luigi.
59 minutes is the correct answer. Those who answered 20 minutes, as for one-third of an hour, got themselves tricked. That's too bad.
Wiggler has a lot of legs, so she needs more time to wear shoes.
Read it in horizontal lines.