The Super Acorn is a power-up item introduced in New Super Mario Bros. U. It is an acorn highly stylized to resemble a mushroom, with red and yellow stripes on top and a red face with eyes on the bottom. It transforms playable characters into their Flying Squirrel forms. There exists a stronger variant called the P-Acorn.

Super Acorns are items in New Super Mario Bros. U, New Super Luigi U, and their enhanced port. Super Acorns are introduced in the first level: Acorn Plains Way in New Super Mario Bros. U and Waddlewing Warning! in New Super Luigi U. They originate from a large Acorn Tree in Acorn Plains, as seen in the games' introduction. Super Acorns are usually found within ? Blocks, but they can also be carried by Waddlewings, which must be defeated to release them. When released, Super Acorns start rolling on the ground and change direction when they touch a wall, similarly to a Super Mushroom. When collected, Super Acorns confer Flying Squirrel abilities, such as gliding and sticking to walls for a short time. There are some Super Acorns rolling around in some parts of the world map, where they can be collected instantly and stored into the inventory.
In the enhanced port, the Super Crown replaces most of the Super Acorns in ? Blocks when hit by Toadette.

Super Acorns were added to Super Mario Maker 2 in the version 3.0.0 update released on April 22, 2020, appearing in the New Super Mario Bros. U style. In the nighttime ground theme, Super Acorns bounce at varying heights as they travel across the ground.

Super Acorns can be requested by the Toads in One-Stop Toad Shop, a minigame in Mario Party: Star Rush.

In the Super Mario Mash-up for Minecraft, Cocoa Beans are replaced by Super Acorns.

A Super Acorn is featured in the emblem for the Acorn Cup in the Mario Kart 8 Deluxe – Booster Course Pass.

In Super Mario Maker's E3 2014 trailer, Super Acorns can be seen in the Acorn Tree in the background at the beginning of a New Super Mario Bros. U-style ground course. The Acorn Tree, along with its Super Acorns, were removed prior to the game's release.