Super Mario Fushigi no Janjan Land (スーパーマリオ　不思議のジャンジャンランド), translated as Super Mario Ching-Ching Land of Mystery, is an arcade game that was released only in Japan. The game was exhibited at Capcom's booth in the 41st Amusement Machine Show in September 2003 and then released nationwide in April 2004. It is a single-player medal game with visuals and audio sourced from Super Mario Advance 4: Super Mario Bros. 3. Over the years, this arcade game was followed by three multiplayer medal games: Super Mario Fushigi no Korokoro Party, Super Mario Fushigi no Korokoro Party 2, and Mario Party Fushigi no Korokoro Catcher.

Players load their medals so they can shoot them into the machine from the right or left. After that, players use the buttons to fire the coins out onto the field. As they fall down, they fall in one of many pockets that activate points in the game. Mario usually moves around automatically, though each time a coin goes into one of the side pockets, Mario jumps either small or big. Players can trigger many events by getting him to jump at the right time.
There are a couple bonus games available during gameplay:

The goal of this game is to collect keys available throughout the game, and if players manage to collect five keys in total at one time, they get to challenge Bowser. Here, players partake in a series of minigames, which, if players pass them all, let players get up to 200 medals dropped onto the lower playfield, which is the jackpot of this game. The first part involves shooting coins into the side pockets to play a bingo game until the player either scores a bingo with at least one line or gets a bomb, which ends the game with a loss. If players land a coin in one of the Toad pockets in the center, Mario powers up, turns from one to five cards, and marks them off on the player's bingo card as if they hit those numbers themselves. If a player's coin lands in the middle slot, Bowser shuffles the side pocket board, changing which numbers they get from hitting the side pockets.

When the player gets at least one bingo, they receive a medal bonus and a chance to win the jackpot of 200 medals. The player must insert medals and fire them onto the playfield until a coin falls in one of the center pockets, which determines what they get. The Peach pocket is worth 25 medals, the right Toad pocket is worth 50 medals, and the left Toad pocket is worth the mini jackpot of 100 medals. If the player wins the 100-medal mini jackpot, they can choose to stop and have 100 medals dropped onto their field right away or try to double up. If the player chooses to go for the double-up, they have to play the same game again with different values for the center pockets. If the coin lands in one of the Toad pockets, the player receives only 40 medals as a consolation prize. If the coin lands in the center Peach pocket, however, the player rescues Peach and wins the jackpot of 200 medals. After the jackpot chance is over, the player moves back to the main game.