Super Mario World is a 2D action-adventure platform game and a launch title released for the Super Nintendo Entertainment System in 1990, developed by Nintendo EAD. It is the sixth entry in the Super Mario series and a direct sequel to Super Mario Bros. 3. In being a sequel, the game retains many of the elements that debuted in Super Mario Bros. 3, such as the world map and Koopaling boss fights, while introducing a large variety of new gameplay mechanics, such as an expanded and less linear world map and the ability to save the game. Introduced in Super Mario World is Mario's sidekick, Yoshi (and his species that shares his name), who serves as a playable mount for the Mario Bros. with his own unique abilities and gameplay style. The overall game was meant to be modeled after an action movie franchise, as can be inferred by the Japanese version of the Koopaling defeat scenes as well as the summary on the back of the Japanese box.
The game was released to best-selling status on the SNES, received large amounts of critical acclaim, and is commonly seen on Nintendo's best games of all time on various critic listings. Many of its introduced characters, game mechanics, and artistic themes influenced later titles in the Super Mario franchise, and the character Yoshi was popular enough to receive a series starring him. The game was followed in 1995 by a prequel, Super Mario World 2: Yoshi's Island, set during Mario's infancy. Super Mario World has spawned various non-game media such as a cartoon series based on it, which debuted on September 14, 1991, one month after the American release. Various manga adaptions of the game have sprung up, one notable series being Super Mario-kun, which has its first volumes based on Super Mario World released in 1991 and is still ongoing today.
Super Mario World is included in the Super Mario All-Stars + Super Mario World compilation title released in December 1994. A  remake of Super Mario World was later released on the Game Boy Advance as part of the Super Mario Advance series, titled Super Mario World: Super Mario Advance 2. The original version was also rereleased on the Wii's Virtual Console in 2006, the Wii U's Virtual Console in 2013, and the New Nintendo 3DS's Virtual Console in 2016. Super Mario World is one of the included titles in the SNES Classic Edition and Super Nintendo Entertainment System - Nintendo Switch Online, the latter of which also includes a version titled Super Mario World: Give the world a whole new look!, which was initially released on March 30, 2022, and begins in Fall with 99 lives and a Cape Feather in the Item Stock.

From the instruction booklet:

After saving the Mushroom Kingdom from Bowser and the rest of the Koopas in Super Mario 3, Mario and Luigi needed to recuperate from their adventures. Together they agreed that the best place to vacation was a magical place called Dinosaur Land.
But while Mario and Luigi reclined on the beach for a relaxing nap, Princess Toadstool disappeared, apparently seized by evil forces. After searching for hours for their missing friend, Mario and Luigi came upon an enormous egg in the forest.
Suddenly the egg hatched, and out popped a young dinosaur named YOSHI, who proceeded to tell Mario and Luigi a sad tale of how his dinosaur pals were sealed in similar eggs by a group of monstrous turtles.
"Monstrous turtles!,[sic]" exclaimed Luigi. "Bowser and his bunch have returned!" Mario slowly nodded his head in agreement and, along with Luigi and Yoshi, set off across Dinosaur Land to find the Princess and to free Yoshi's friends. As they began their journey, Yoshi handed Mario a beautiful cape. "This may help you," Yoshi said. "Some say it has magical powers."

With a little luck (and help from a magic cape), our hearty crew can defeat the seven worlds of Bowser's Krazy Koopa Kritters. Many locations are well-hidden so explore everywhere and try everything. Not all locations have to be explored to rescue the dinosaurs and save Princess Toadstool, but there are many "starry" treasures to be found in far-reaching places. You'll need to search all areas to find what kinds of treasures are there... in Super Mario World.
Super Mario World is the only sequel in the Super Mario series to take place directly after the events of a previous entry. After Bowser's previous defeat, Mario, Luigi, and Princess Toadstool decide to recuperate in Dinosaur Land. Meanwhile, in Dinosaur Land, Bowser and his Koopalings trap Yoshi and his friends in enchanted eggs, eliminating the opposition as they secretly rebuild their forces. Shortly upon their arrival, the Mario Bros. realize that Toadstool is missing. While searching, they find the Koopa Troop. Upon the Mario Bros. freeing the friendly Yoshi, he exclaims that the Koopas have invaded, confirming that Bowser has indeed returned and taken the opportunity to claim the princess.
As Mario and his friends travel through Dinosaur Land, they uncover the Valley of Bowser, where Bowser is fought on his castle roof in his Koopa Clown Car, holding Toadstool hostage. Upon his defeat, he gently drops the princess and retreats. Toadstool rewards Mario or Luigi with a kiss as fireworks celebrate freedom, signifying that their vacation can resume with their new good friends. The reunited team returns to Yoshi's House, where the team and three other Yoshis watch the eggs hatch into babies, removing the spell.

As the game is a 2D platformer, the object of every level is to get to the Giant Gate at the end to advance to the next level before the timer runs out. Mario (or Luigi) can jump over and on top of various platforms and obstacles and stomp on various enemies to defeat them. In addition to the basic jump, Mario can spin-jump to destroy certain types of blocks and enemies, whereas  or  lets Mario dash if held down. When the player presses either of those buttons when Mario is next to some items, he can pick them up and carry them through the level as the buttons are held. Mario can now hold objects underwater; when he does, he can swim quickly when the player uses only  without pressing the jump button. When Mario hits the Giant Gate at the end of the level, if he touches the vertically moving tape between the gate, he gets awarded Bonus Stars depending on how high the tape is when he touches it. If he collects 100 Bonus Stars, Mario can play a bonus game that helps him earn extra lives. Some levels contain a Midway Gate, which not only powers Mario up to Super Mario when touched but also serves as a checkpoint for Mario to respawn near if he gets defeated in the level.
Mario can transform with power-up items, mostly found in blocks. The basic Super Mushroom, which turns Mario into Super Mario, causes him to grow bigger and allows him to sustain an extra hit. When Super Mario hits a block, usually a more powerful item spawns in the Super Mushroom's place, such as a Fire Flower or the newly introduced Cape Feather. Introduced in Super Mario World is the Item Stock, where Mario can hold on to one extra item should he find it while in powered-up forms; players can manually drop their reserve item by pressing . If Mario gets damaged and turns into regular Mario, the reserve item automatically deploys. A newly introduced character and power-up in Super Mario World, Yoshi, also appears from certain blocks. Mario can jump on Yoshi to ride him and receive more special abilities, the most prominent one being using his tongue to eat enemies and carry items.
If Mario gets touched by an enemy or a damaging obstacle while he is in his small form, he loses a life. If he gets damaged by an enemy while in a power-up form, he reverts to his normal form. If Mario loses all of his lives, the player receives a Game Over and is prompted to continue from their last save with five more lives. Some obstacles defeat Mario instantly regardless of what power-up he has, such as falling into pits or lava, getting crushed, and not making it to the goal in time. Every time Mario gets defeated, he gets sent back to the world map.
Super Mario World retains the world map system from Super Mario Bros. 3 with more expanded features. Rather than having levels and worlds segmented, most worlds and levels are seamlessly connected to each other, with a heavier focus on multiple paths per level clearance, and thus creating a less linear map, with a few exceptions. Typically, prior to entering new areas, Mario has to defeat a castle boss, usually one of Bowser's seven children, the Koopalings. Once they are defeated, the castles they reside in are destroyed and cannot be replayed, though in international versions of the game, they can be replayed if players hold  and  on the castles' remains.
Two-player mode returns, where players take turns playing through the game; Player 1 controls Mario, while Player 2 controls Luigi. Players can opt to use the same controller or two controllers to play the mode. If one player fails to clear a course, the other player takes a turn, and if a Midway Gate is touched, the other player starts at the Midway Gate. Players can also hand each other lives on the map screen if they press  or .
After the player beats every special level in the Special Zone, a game aesthetic change called Fall occurs, where the world map obtains a different palette and some enemies get their sprites changed. Once Fall is activated, these changes cannot be reversed unless the save file is deleted and a new game is started. 

Super Mario World takes place on the archipelago of Dinosaur Land, and players navigate it through a world map comprised of a greater, general view of the whole land and several sub-maps for specific areas. Unlike in Super Mario Bros. 3, whose world maps featured mostly numbered panels largely detached from the landscape, levels in Super Mario World are marked by button-like spots laid on the environment itself, creating an organic appearance between the world and each level. Players first start out on Yoshi's Island at Yoshi's House, where the path immediately branches off into two levels. The order of the world themes is unique to this title: Players first start in two grassy plain-like worlds while eventually venturing into a cave toward a sky area, into a forest, onto a rocky island, and finally into the Valley of Bowser, which takes on a subterranean wasteland. Haunted Ghost Houses are introduced in Super Mario World and populate Dinosaur Land; unlike traditional level layouts, they tend to contain puzzles and traps designed to confuse the player. Cave levels and levels that primarily take place underwater or where water is prevalent are additionally marked as such on the map, with most cave levels outside the Vanilla Dome and the Valley of Bowser featuring rocks around them, while Mario gets submerged in water for the water levels.
Super Mario World contains nine worlds and 73 (74 if the Back Door and Front Door are counted as separate levels, and 76 if the Top Secret Area and Yoshi's House are counted as levels) levels in total. 24 of these levels have secret exits, so depending on how one counts the levels, this makes for a total of 97 to 100 exits, although only 96 are tracked by the game. Almost all worlds contain four regular levels and at least one secret level. Levels marked in yellow contain one exit, while levels marked in red contain an alternative, secret exit. Other points of interest include the Switch Palaces, Warp Pipes, and the star-shaped portals to Star World that are unlocked only when players find the associated secret exit. Switch Palaces activate respectively colored permeable Dotted Line Blocks and turn them into solid Exclamation Mark Blocks that can be stood on or hit from below. Once Switch Palace levels have been completed, they cannot be visited again. Warp Pipes warp players to different areas of the map, usually to different worlds altogether. Finally, Yoshis cannot be taken into castles, fortresses, or Ghost Houses, though Yoshi remains outside for the player if they exit the level. In castles, players have to defeat the Koopalings, while in fortresses, players need to defeat Reznors.
Star World and the Special Zone are bonus worlds that are accessed when players find secret exits throughout Dinosaur Land that lead to the Star Roads. The Star World levels require the player to find a key and keyhole secret exit to progress through it, while the Special Zone is a linear area that is unlocked when players complete all of Star World's secret exits. The Special Zone levels are much more difficult relative to the levels in this game; none of the levels contain Midway Gates, and some can be long while others use level gimmicks.

Mario and Luigi are the main playable characters. In two-player mode, Mario is controlled by Player 1 and Luigi is controlled by Player 2. If Mario loses a life or completes a level in two-player mode, Luigi comes into play until he does the same. The two may also share extra lives on the world map. The two have identical mechanics.

In addition to Mario and Luigi, Yoshis of four different colors appear in the game, and they can be controlled once acquired and help the Mario Bros. in many levels of the game. Green Yoshis hatch out of eggs, usually found in various blocks throughout the game. If an egg is found but the player already has a Yoshi, the egg instead provides a 1-Up Mushroom. If a Yoshi gets hurt, it runs off, requiring the Mario Bros. to chase it down if they want to ride it again. A Yoshi can additionally provide a Yoshi Boost (or Double Jump) to Mario if he jumps off the Yoshi. Some levels contain berries, and Yoshis can eat them and produce eggs from them if enough are eaten. Yoshis can eat most enemies, though they cannot immediately swallow most shells, requiring them to spit the shells out before they eventually swallow them.
Red, Blue, and Yellow Yoshis are uncommon in Super Mario World. They are first encountered in Star World, which is accessible by using the five Star Roads found throughout the game. Red, Blue, and Yellow Yoshis are found as Mini-Yoshis, small and unable to be ridden. However, through carrying them, the Mini-Yoshis eat the enemies and items they touch. When they eat five enemies, shells, coins, or active Grab Blocks, they transform into adult Yoshis and can be used normally. If a Mini-Yoshi eats a single power-up, it grows up instantly. Mini-Yoshis of all colors hatch from the eggs rescued from the castles during the end credits of the game.

Super Mario World retains some of the enemies from Super Mario Bros. 3, such as the common Koopa Troopas and their varieties, Ghost House-dwelling Boos, Buzzy Beetles in a cave environment, and Cheep Cheeps underwater, while introducing more species that would regularly appear in later entries in the Super Mario series, such as Magikoopas, Fishbones, Swoopers, and Wigglers. Goombas are featured less prominently in this title and function differently than in prior Super Mario titles; they are later localized as Galoombas. Some of the new enemies introduced are variants of other species, such as the cape-wielding and flying Super Koopas, the large Banzai Bills that are encountered before regular Bullet Bills, the spike-donning Spike Tops, and the pipe-inhabiting Lakitus. Included with the introduced enemies are various new obstacles, most of which populate the castle and fortress levels in the game, and several of these obstacles would make later appearances in the Super Mario series, namely Grinders and Skewers.
When Fall is unlocked, some of these enemies have their graphics changed; however, their behaviors are unaltered.

These are collectibles, pickups, and health-restoring objects.

There is a total of six power-ups that provide transformations in the game, with one being exclusive to Yoshi. Most power-ups emerge from the blocks populated in levels, and players are able to carry an extra item in their Item Stock if they are already powered up. While the Super Mushroom, Fire Flower, and Super Star return, Super Mario World introduces the Cape Feather, which gently floats down when it appears onscreen as well as being able to be spawned from defeating a Super Koopa with a flashing cape. The new Power Balloon is a rare item used in a few levels and serves as a temporary transformation for Mario and Luigi.
In addition to the power-up items, Mario and Luigi can encounter other level features that help them progress through the level, such as 1-Up Mushrooms granting them extra lives or keys and keyholes granting them access to secret levels.
Forms that share a column look the same for both Mario and Luigi.

Objects are interactable elements of the environment that cannot be picked up or collected.

While composer Koji Kondo had created many different melodies for Super Mario Bros. 3, he decided to use the same melody in Super Mario World, albeit in an arranged form, assuming that the player would be able to recognize the melody while being exposed to new variations of music throughout the game. The melody was believed to be inspired by "Green, Green," a folk song recorded in the 1960s that was very popular in Japan. This being the first game developed for the SNES, Kondo felt "overjoyed" about being able to take advantage of the increased technological capability, which allowed eight instruments to be used at once. To express the technological novelty of the new console, he used samples of several different instruments (as named below), implementing them all, one after the other, in the game's title song. As development progressed, Kondo grew concerned over how people would react to his unusual combinations of instruments as he noted the use of the NES's traditional square waves and triangle waves had "gained acceptance" with consumers. For the game's sound effects, Kondo decided to use a variety of musical instruments to emphasize that the game used traditional technology with a hybrid of new materials. For example, Mario's jumping sound is a reappropriation of a pan flute sample. The music took around a year and a half for Kondo to compose.
A compilation soundtrack for Super Mario World was released in Japan on February 25, 1991, and it contains original jazz arrangements composed by musician Soichi Noriki and performed by the Mario Club Band; the album additionally contains music from Super Mario Bros. and Super Mario Bros. 3. The arrangements are recorded on the album's first disc, while the second disc contains the original compositions. The music was also included on Nintendo Super Famicom Game Music, another Japan-only album released in 1992 that contains music from various games released for the SNES. Super Mario Compact Disco, a compilation soundtrack released originally in Japan on August 1, 1993, contains pieces that remix and rearrange music sampling sound effects from the game into a funk and hip-hop-oriented genre with lyrics. Super Mario World music has been featured in several of the Nintendo Sound Selection series, namely Nintendo Sound Selection Vol.2: Loud Music and Nintendo Sound Selection: Endings & Credits, and in several Super Mario anniversary soundtracks, such as Happy! Mario 20th - Super Mario Sound Collection and The 30th Anniversary Super Mario Bros. Music.
The soundfont used for the Super Mario World soundtrack consists of the following instrument samples: the fretless bass, piano, pan flute, brass, and clarinet from the Kawai K1 module; the fantasia synth, arco strings, bass marimba, and slap bass from the Roland D-50 synthesizer; the honky-tonk, steel drum, and oud from the Roland L-CD1 (a sample library built for the S-50 synthesizer); and the dry kick, impact snare, reverb snare, closed hi-hat, and open low conga from the Roland R-8 drum machine. An orchestra hit sample from unknown equipment by E-mu Systems is also present, and it was used to construct Yoshi's record-scratching voice effect. The cannon sound used for the thunder effects is of unknown origin, but it is currently part of the Soundstorm Sound Effects Library; it is the first professional film sound effect to be sampled in a Nintendo game. The origin of the heavy guitar used in the final boss theme is currently unknown.

23 people were listed in the credits of Super Mario World, including notable Nintendo composer Koji Kondo for the sound programming and Shigeru Miyamoto as the producer. Takashi Tezuka was the overall director of the game, listed as the "Total Director" in the original Japanese version of the credits.

The game was produced by Shigeru Miyamoto, featuring music composed by Koji Kondo and graphics designed by Shigefumi Hino, and it was the first game designed for the SNES. As an experiment, the teammates ported Super Mario Bros. 3 to the console, and it felt like the same game to them despite the enhanced graphics, so the teammates wanted to create something new for the console (though Super Mario Bros. 3 itself would later be ported and remade for the SNES as one of the featured games in Super Mario All-Stars). Miyamoto has stated that ever since they finished Super Mario Bros., the design staff wanted to have Mario ride a horse. It was believed to be impossible technically until the SNES was developed, and it was changed to a dinosaur due to the team working with a dinosaur land. The team first came up with a crocodile, which the team felt did not fit in Mario's world, so the design was altered to eventually evolve into Yoshi. According to Miyamoto, sixteen people were involved in the creation of the game, and it took about three years to make.
At one point during the game's development, it was meant to be released in North America and Europe under the full Super Mario Bros. 4 title, but it was later shortened to simply Super Mario World. Miyamoto has stated that this is his favorite game of the Super Mario franchise.

Dinosaur Land was drastically different from the final version, possessing an appearance similar to the various kingdoms of Super Mario Bros. 3. Specifically, it was to feature things such as Toad Houses (which could possibly mean that Toads were once considered to populate Dinosaur Land) and more Super Mario Bros. 3-style fortresses. In addition to this, the game originally had the subtitle "Super Mario Bros. 4" on the title screen.

The balls on Iggy's and Larry's platforms can be destroyed by the sliding attack, as can the Grinders (using a Triangular Block). This results in glitchy graphics, most likely because the developers did not intend for these enemies to be defeated. The same happens if Mario does a nosedive in the second level of the Bowser battle. The Big Steely is defeated as a red sprite of Princess Toadstool's head.

In order to do this glitch, the player must go to the end of Chocolate Island 3. Under the goal, the player must jump off Yoshi to the Giant Gate so that the screen does not scroll up. If this is done correctly, Mario is barely seen when he finishes the level, and because Mario is not present on the bottom of the screen, the screen begins to flicker in many colors as the stage begins to fade out. When he comes back to the overworld map, the entire world is glitchy and colored with red and blue. If Mario visits the Forest of Illusion or the Valley of Bowser and comes back to the main overworld, the entire world is ivory-colored instead. The glitch ends if the player completes a level or visits a Star Road.

A number of changes were made to Super Mario World when it was released internationally following its initial Japanese version. This included translating the Japanese names and words and tweaking various levels to make the game easier for international audiences.

Super Mario World received universal critical acclaim, and it is held as among Nintendo's best games with a strong legacy. The game ranks with an average of 94.44% aggregate score in GameRankings before it was merged with Metacritic. Although Metacritic does not have an official aggregate score on the game, due to it being released before Metacritic's inception, the user review is shown to be mostly positive. Much of the game's general praise is directed to the game's visuals, gameplay, level design, secrets, and music, while retrospective reviews often opine that the game is still very playable today and that new players should play it.
Alex Navarro of GameSpot scored the game an 8.5 out of 10 in his review for the Virtual Console version of the game on the Wii, recommended players to play the game if they have not already. He has praised the game as a "well-crafted adventure," stating that nothing in the game feels "superfluous," and that while he pointed out that it was rather short for modern game standards, the secrets are easy to overlook on a first playthrough of the game. He has praised the graphics, describing them as "colorful" and "cute" and stands out as one of the best-looking games of the system, saying that the visuals still hold to the modern era; he has praised that the game's music is some of the best the Super Mario franchise has ever seen, calling the tunes "supercatchy." The only bad listed in the review of the game is the distinct lack of Kuribo's Shoe. Lucas M. Thomas of IGN also scored the game an 8.5 out of 10 for the Virtual Console version of the game, noting the game's successful history and how the game still feels good to play today despite the age. However, Thomas felt that Super Mario World does feel lacking, and he pointed out how Miyamoto felt he could have done more to the game to distinguish it from being a graphically upgraded continuation of Super Mario Bros. 3 and that during the time, Nintendo's competitor, Sega, took advantage of it and introduced Sonic the Hedgehog.
Jamie O' Neill of Nintendo Life gave the game a 10/10, writing about the game's legacy and history when it was first released and that the game is still playable today; he has written that while many games can be considered "classics," only a few can be considered "masterpieces," which O' Neill has referred to them as. He has stated that the game is not the flashiest showcase of the SNES's graphical effects, but he has praised the game's bright and colorful aesthetics. He has praised Koji Kondo's efforts on the soundtrack, where the themes are diverse and they carry on various moods, such as the atmospheric Ghost Houses and the energized credits tune that settles into a "beautiful melancholy" when the characters reach Yoshi's House to conclude their adventure. He has called the game's controls "perfect" and said that the game's meticulous secrets lend it a long-lasting appeal. O' Neill has then mentioned that the game scored number 2 on Nintendo Life's 20 debut SNES games from the Nintendo Switch Online.
Dan Whitehead of Eurogamer gave the game a 10/10 on his brief overview of various Virtual Console games, stating that the column nearly missed its deadline because he "ended up losing the best part of an afternoon to rediscovering its impeccable design."
The game was placed 16th in the 100th issue of Nintendo Power's "100 best Nintendo games of all time" in 1997. The game placed 47th in the 200th issue of GameInformer's "Top 200 Games of All Time."

Super Mario World was bundled with the Super Nintendo Entertainment System, making it the most sold game for the SNES, selling 20 million copies.

The game was ported to the Nintendo Super System, an arcade machine, in 1991. It is the only Super Mario title released on this system. There are a few differences such as a message on the title screen letting the player know what version it is. Players can choose one of seven zones to start in. There is no way to save progress, and a timer counts down on the bottom right corner when play begins, reappearing when time is almost up. Afterwards, a screen appears, asking if the player wants to continue by inserting coins.

The Super Mario All-Stars + Super Mario World version gives Luigi a more distinctive sprite where he is taller and thinner and animates differently, while in the original, he is simply a palette swap of Mario, and his moves are identical to Mario's.

Super Mario World was remade for the Game Boy Advance as the second installment in the Super Mario Advance series, Super Mario World: Super Mario Advance 2. Some of the more notable changes include new sprites for Luigi, the maximum number of lives being 999 that can now be saved, and a list of levels showing whether the secret exit and the Dragon Coins have been found.

The game has featured in the Virtual Console selections on Wii, Wii U, and New Nintendo 3DS. The Wii release requires 34 blocks (4.3 MB) to install, while the Wii U release requires 23 MB.

Super Mario World is one of the 21 titles included on the Super NES Classic Edition.

Super Mario World is one of the 20 launch titles for Super Nintendo Entertainment System - Nintendo Switch Online, along with Super Mario Kart and Super Mario World 2: Yoshi's Island.

The Japanese manga series 4koma Manga Ōkoku has a series called Super Mario, in which its seven entries have stories and gags based off Super Mario World.

The Super Mario 4koma Manga Theater is another Japanese 4koma series that features many 4-panel visual gags based off Super Mario World. For example, one comic has Mario running out of time just as he was about to face Iggy Koopa, as Iggy Koopa dives into Mario: the momentum causes Iggy Koopa to fall into the lava and get defeated as well.

Super Mario-kun's first six volumes are all based on Super Mario World, kick-starting the series and being the game with the most arcs associated with it. While the first four arcs follow the games closely, with each arc having the characters travel through the game's locations, the fifth and sixth arcs have their own storylines that feature content from other Super Mario titles released at the time such as Yoshi and Super Mario Kart.

Seven entries based on Super Mario World were released for the Super Mario manga series by Kazuki Motoyama.

Super Mario World has an animated television series produced by DIC, being the last of the Super Mario cartoons DIC has produced. It has aired from September 14, 1991 to December 7, 1991, featuring 13 episodes, the least amount of the Super Mario cartoons. While it has faithful elements to the original series, the cartoon has a focus on common prehistoric stereotypes and themes such as the Mario characters living with cavepeople and relying on anachronistic themes to introduce to the cavepeople such as cars, television, and telephones.

The game's success led to six games being released for Japanese and North American arcades.

Due to the game's overwhelming popularity and success, much merchandise has been released using the Super Mario World theme.