"Super Bell Hill" is a musical theme composed for Super Mario 3D World that can be heard in most of the game's overworld levels. Despite the theme being named after the level Super Bell Hill, the music that plays in said level is another arrangement of the theme titled "SUPER MARIO 3D WORLD Theme", with the original "Super Bell Hill" theme being first heard in the beginning area of Koopa Troopa Cave.

The following list does not include ports or remakes of Super Mario 3D World.

Super Mario 3D World features multiple arrangements of "Super Bell Hill" in its soundtrack. "SUPER MARIO 3D WORLD Theme" plays in Super Bell Hill, the first level of the game, and is also featured in the game's E3 2013 reveal trailer.
"Title Screen" is an arrangement of "Super Bell Hill", and as the name suggests, it plays on the game's title screen.
The theme heard when the player completes a level, titled "Course Clear!" is a brief arrangement of "Super Bell Hill".
"SUPER MARIO 3D WORLD Theme" is reused for ground-themed Super Mario 3D World-style levels in Super Mario Maker 2. "SUPER MARIO 3D WORLD Theme", "Title Screen", and "Course Clear!" are all reused in the same capacity in the game's Nintendo Switch port, Super Mario 3D World + Bowser's Fury.

Super Mario Maker 2 features an ambient arrangement of "Super Bell Hill" using eight tracks that fade in and out randomly as well as a capella vocals to create a dynamic mix. The arrangement is heard while editing Super Mario 3D World-style ground-themed courses in the Course Maker.

Super Mario 3D World + Bowser's Fury features a jazz double bass and cymbal arrangement of "Super Bell Hill" on the game select screen.

An arrangement of "Super Bell Hill" is featured as a selectable track in Rhythm Gymnastics in the Wii U version of Mario & Sonic at the Rio 2016 Olympic Games.

In Mario Strikers: Battle League, a hard rock arrangement of "Super Bell Hill" is one of the themes that can play when both halves of the field are using the Mushroom Hill theme.

The Nintendo 3DS features a downloadable HOME Menu theme based on The Cat Mario Show titled "Mario: Purrfect Pals". An arrangement of "Super Bell Hill" plays on the HOME Menu when this theme is applied.

Nintendo Live 2023 in Seattle, Washington, USA featured a live performance by the Super Mario Super Big Band of themes from various Super Mario games, including "Super Bell Hill," as well as the Super Mario 3D World's credits theme.

1 - Themes were added in update 9.0.0-20 on October 6, 2014