Super Stars (also written as Superstars), originally referred to as Starmen and alternatively referred to as Star Bonuses, Invincible Starmen, Invincibility Stars, Stars, or Star-Men, are recurring items in the Super Mario franchise, most notably the Super Mario series and the Mario Kart series. Super Stars are generally depicted as five-pointed stars with beady eyes, usually yellow in color. If the player gets a Star, they will become invincible. The user becomes temporarily invulnerable to all damage, being able to defeat almost any enemy. However, hazards that would be fatal regardless of power-ups (lava, poison, pits, time running out, getting crushed, etc.) will still defeat the user, even with the Super Star. In addition, the splotchy goop in the Bowser's Fury mode in Super Mario 3D World + Bowser's Fury will cause the player to lose their invincibility if touched while also taking damage, as if they took damage without the power-up. The projectiles or enemies that come into contact with the user of the Star while it is activated are destroyed, damaged, or knocked off the screen (depending on the type of enemy and what game it is). The Star also increases the speed of the user substantially (again, depending on the game). In most games since Super Mario World, if the player collides with and defeats a sequence of enemies while invincible, they will get an extra life. The point chain is usually 200 - 400 - 800 - 1,000 - 2,000 - 4,000 - 8,000 - 1UP - 1UP - 1UP... As the player continues defeating enemies, they will keep getting extra lives for each additional enemy defeated until the Star's power wears off and they are no longer invulnerable. Touching another Star while already invincible will prolong the effect and allow the player to continue getting more lives.

Starmen made their debut in the game Super Mario Bros., first found in World 1-1. The Starman is a very rare item, only found in some levels. When Mario or Luigi gets it, they will turn invincible, allowing them to destroy enemies and go through hazards without getting hurt (though they will still lose a life if they fall in a pit or run out of time). However, the star's power is only temporary, and it will disappear after a certain amount of time. Invincibility is indicated by Mario's flashing sprites and the Starman theme which replaces the current soundtrack. This is the first Super Mario power-up to have eyes. The item returns in Super Mario Bros.: The Lost Levels, functionally identical as before.

Starmen return in Super Mario Bros. 2, including Yume Kōjō: Doki Doki Panic before it was redeveloped into this game. The only way to obtain one is to collect five cherries in a level. They have the exact same effect as in the previous games, though instead of bouncing, a Starman will float upwards from the bottom of the screen in a zig-zag fashion after the required cherries are collected.

Starmen are more common in Super Mario Bros. 3. Just like the preceding games, they grant Mario invincibility, but in addition, Mario can run slightly faster than normal. However, unlike most other games, the star's power lasts shorter than normal. If Mario jumps when he is not Small Mario, he does flips in the air. This game also introduces Continuous Starman chains, where certain ? Blocks that normally contain coins will contain additional stars instead if Mario is invincible when hitting them. If Mario is fast/efficient enough, he can complete large sections of a level while invincible. This is achievable on Worlds 3-2, 5-1, 5-7, 7-3, and 7-7, and it is the only way to complete the last of these levels. Starmen also appear as icons in the goal roulette, which must be hit in order to clear a level. If the player gets three Stars (easily done by running at max speed and jumping to the goal at a 45° angle), they receive five extra lives.

Stars make a return in the game, Super Mario Land. Little has changed between the preceding game and this game regarding gameplay effects. The music, however, is different than the ordinary music; it is composed of two loops of an excerpt from the famous "Galop infernal" from Orpheus in the Underworld by Jacques Offenbach, a tune most commonly associated with the can-can.

Super Stars are very rare in Super Mario World, just like the preceding games. Stars are mostly found in Roulette Blocks. If the player manages to get a star while the items are getting changed, they will be able to defeat any enemy and become invincible to any attacks for a limited amount of time, as in past games.

The main difference, however, is that the player scores a combo, similar to a shell or a jump combo, when he defeats enemies. This results in increasing point values for successive enemies, eventually gaining extra lives starting on the eighth, which became a recurring trait of the power-up, including in remakes of previous games where this trait was not present.
The music for Star World is a slowed-down version of the Super Star theme.

In Super Mario Land 2: 6 Golden Coins, Stars do not move when freed from blocks; they can also be gained by defeating 100 enemies. They make Mario turn invincible and move faster, much like in previous games, though he gains extra lives from the fifth enemy defeated onwards, rather than the eighth. As with Super Mario Land, the Super Star theme is a unique composition.

Starmen once again turn the player invincible in New Super Mario Bros. They are much rarer in this game and sometimes appear in hidden ? Blocks. None of them can be found in Toad Houses, and there is no way to put one as a Stored Item. Mario and Luigi can run a lot faster when they are invincible, as the star's power does not last as long (only about 10 seconds). The star is the second rarest item (after the Blue Shell power-up) and can only be found in some levels, such as Worlds 1-1, 1-2, 4-6, 4-Castle, 6-2, 7-3, 8-4, and 8-7. There is a new ability for the Starmen: a trail of Blue Coins will appear behind the player, though it only happens in certain levels. In the Mario vs. Luigi mode, a Starman may potentially appear when a brother collects eight coins. A player has a higher chance of receiving a Starman if they are losing. A different type of star also appears exclusively in the multiplayer mode, a Big Star. Mario or Luigi has to collect a certain number (three, five or ten) of them to win.

Although Super Stars do not appear in Super Mario Galaxy and Super Mario Galaxy 2, Rainbow Stars share the same function and also play the invincibility theme while under the effect of one.

In New Super Mario Bros. Wii, Stars are mostly found through Roulette Blocks or just regular ? Blocks. They behave very similarly to the previous game, but with a different theme cover and they now have the ability to light up dark places entirely. The player can now obtain them from Toad Houses and store them in the inventory. If an invincible player grabs another player, they too will gain the power of invincibility.

Super Stars make their 3D Super Mario debut in Super Mario 3D Land, and have the same abilities as in previous games. They are exceptionally more common in this game. Like in Super Mario Land 2: 6 Golden Coins, in order to start getting extra lives for hitting enemies, the player only needs to hit five enemies, instead of the standard eight. As the power-up begins to wear off, the music becomes faster, similar to the Rainbow Stars in the Super Mario Galaxy games. Unlike them, however, the music speeds up in the second bar rather than the fifth bar in this game and Super Mario 3D World, although in the E3 2011 demo version, it sped up in the fifth bar like in Super Mario Galaxy.

Super Stars reappear in New Super Mario Bros. 2, functioning and behaving as in the previous 2D Super Mario games. Also, the player is able to store a Star in the item storage, but it is only possible in the World Star Toad House (by obtaining all the Star Coins and the Moon Coins).

Super Stars return in New Super Mario Bros. U, New Super Luigi U and New Super Mario Bros. U Deluxe, functioning the same way they did in New Super Mario Bros. Wii.

Super Stars reappear in Super Mario 3D World and its port, this time working like they do in most other games, though the sharing feature from New Super Mario Bros. Wii is retained: when one player acquires a Super Star, they can touch other players and make them invincible as well. Unlike in most other games, though, they only award an extra life for every eighth enemy defeated on contact. They do not appear as frequently as they do in Super Mario 3D Land. After the player gets an extra life, the chain of points restarts (...4,000 - 8,000 - 1UP - 200 - 400...), unlike other games of the Super Mario series.
In the Bowser's Fury campaign of Super Mario 3D World + Bowser's Fury, like all the other power-ups, Super Stars can be obtained randomly by collecting 100 coins.

In Super Mario Maker, Super Mario Maker for Nintendo 3DS and Super Mario Maker 2, Super Stars are one of the various course elements players are allowed to place in their levels. They act as they do in other Super Mario titles, providing the player with invincibility that defeats enemies on contact for a limited period of time.

Super Stars reappear in Super Mario Run. In this game, Super Stars still grant invincibility, but have the additional effect of magnetizing nearby coins and Bonus Medals to the user. Black Coins and Red Coins are resistant to this force. The Black Coins only shake left to right. In Toad Rally, collecting a Super Star will also start Coin Rush mode, with the meter glowing white until the effects wear off. In Remix 10, while Coin Rush is not an element, Super Stars grant an effect similar to it. The screen dims, more coins start to appear, defeating enemies is worth additional coins, ? Blocks that drop coins drop more coins, and ? Blocks that drop power-ups drop three power-ups instead of one. In Remix 10, every 100 coins the player collects resets the coin counter and gives them a bubbled power-up. If the player is Super, then a Super Star is provided.
There is a Super Star Statue item in the Kingdom Builder mode, The 8-bit Super Star Trim and 8-bit Super Star Statue are other Kingdom Builder items that use the Super Star's appearance from Super Mario Bros.

Super Stars appear in Super Mario Bros. 35 and work exactly like in Super Mario Bros. The Item Roulette has a chance of granting the player a Super Star.

Super Stars reappear in Super Mario Bros. Wonder, appearing quite often. Like in Super Mario Run, in addition to traditionally granting characters temporary invincibility, the power-up also grants them the ability to attract coins. A Super Star's power can also be shared between characters in local play as well as in online play. Due to the absence of the traditional score system from previous Super Mario games, when a character defeats multiple enemies under the effects of a Super Star, ratings appear in the order of "Good", "Great", "Super", "Fantastic", "Excellent", "Incredible", and "Wonderful"; from then on, any further action that continues the chain awards the player a 1-Up.

Starmen also make several appearances throughout the three Super Mario animated cartoon series produced by DIC Entertainment.
In The Super Mario Bros. Super Show!, they do not grant invincibility; they instead can power-up Mario and Luigi into Fire Mario and Fire Luigi, giving them increased strength and the ability to shoot fireballs. The person wielding the Starman, often Mario, usually recites, "Starman, star bright, give me pasta power, give me pasta might!", before powering up. This power lasts until either a fair bit of time elapsed, or they are attacked by an enemy. However, Fire Flowers, along with other powerful artifacts such as magic doodads, can also be used in lieu of Starmen in order to power-up. In "Toad Warriors", Toad manages to transform into the Toad Warrior by using a Starman, although in the next episode, "The Fire of Hercufleas", he transforms into Super Toad by using a Fire Flower.
Starmen continue to make appearances into The Adventures of Super Mario Bros. 3 and Super Mario World. In these appearances, they no longer follow the rules of The Super Mario Bros. Super Show! Instead, they grant temporary invincibility, just like in the games. Unlike the Cape Feather and Fire Flower, both Mario and Luigi are seen using the Super Star in Super Mario World: Luigi collects one to dispose of the Caterpillars in "Party Line", and Mario collects one from one of the "dizzy stars" that appear after he is knocked out by an evil dinosaur in the same episode. Mario also collects one when he escapes Neon Castle with Yoshi in "The Yoshi Shuffle".

Stars appear in all Mario Kart games, serving as a rare item that only low-ranking drivers can get. Stars make the player who uses it invincible to all attacks and able to knock over items, course obstacles and other drivers, which in some games makes the player lose their current items. The player receives a speed boost increasing their average speed by 1/3 and is able to cross off-road terrain without losing any speed (Super Mario Kart and Mario Kart: Super Circuit are exceptions, as the item doubles their speed in those games). The invincibility lasts for different time periods depending on the game: 6.13 seconds for Super Mario Kart, 10.13 seconds for Mario Kart 64, 6.3 seconds for Mario Kart: Super Circuit, 7.6 seconds for Mario Kart: Double Dash!!, 7.46 seconds for Mario Kart DS, 7.42 seconds for Mario Kart Wii, 7.46 seconds for Mario Kart 7, and 7.54 seconds for Mario Kart 8 and Mario Kart 8 Deluxe.
In some places, Stars can be obtained through special Item Boxes. One is in DK Pass, where there is an Item Box on top of a hill. If the player, in any position, touches said Item Box, the player may receive a Star, Triple Mushrooms, a single Mushroom, or, very rarely, a single Red Shell. The same rule applies for Chain Chomp Wheel, except that Red Shells and Triple Mushrooms are absent.
Starting in Mario Kart Double Dash!!, the player can steal Balloons and Shine Sprites in Battle Mode when hitting people with the Star in the applicable modes. From Mario Kart Wii onwards, due to the introduction of Coin Runners, Coins can also be stolen in the same way. 
The Star is also the emblem of the Star Cup in every Mario Kart game to date. Also, it is obtainable as an uncommon item from 2nd to 8th place in Mario Kart 64, 6th to 8th place in Mario Kart: Double Dash!! (approximate positions used due to there not being a known item probability table for Double Dash!! or Super Circuit), and 5th to 8th place in Mario Kart DS and Mario Kart 7, as well as 7th to 12th place in Mario Kart Wii.
In Mario Kart Wii, the Sugarscoot has a star emblem on its spare tire on the rear. In this game, when characters acquire this item, their voice will echo, with the exception of Rosalina, whose voice will echo even more, as her voice already echoes. Some of the leaf piles on Maple Treeway, including in the section with the Wigglers and the section before the finish line also have the potential to drop Stars when driven through. Players under the effects of the Mega Mushroom can get hit by this item. Up to three Stars can be in play at a time.
In Mario Kart 7, all courses that have obstacles that drop items when broken (like the jars on Shy Guy Bazaar) have the potential to drop a Star when they do so. 

In Mario Kart Arcade GP, Mario Kart Arcade GP 2, and Mario Kart Arcade GP DX, the Super Star appears again.
In Mario Kart 8 and Mario Kart 8 Deluxe, the Princess Peach statue in Toad Harbor can be seen holding a Star in its raised right hand. Additionally, in Mario Kart 8 Deluxe, if the player has purchased the Booster Course Pass DLC or currently has a Nintendo Switch Online + Expansion Pack membership, a small icon of a Star can be seen next to the version number on the game's title screen.
Unlike in previous installments, Stars themselves do not appear as collectible Item Box items in regular single-player races in Mario Kart Tour. Instead, getting a Frenzy has the same effects as using a Star, with the same invincibility music from Mario Kart 8 playing, while its icon appears on-screen if another racer behind the player is in Frenzy mode. Stars found in Item Boxes appear in multiplayer mode when the rules have less than three item slots, as frenzies are unobtainable then. Stars are also found in certain challenges, first found in the Break Item Boxes challenge of the Tokyo Tour's Wendy Cup. Once obtained, Stars can be activated by tapping the screen, making the player temporarily invincible. Additionally, if the player is about to receive a High-End driver from a pipe, a Star appears briefly on-screen.

Super Stars appear in Yoshi's Safari, dropped from Flying ? Blocks. When dropped from a yellow Flying ? Block, a Super Star's invincibility for Yoshi immediately takes effect, allowing him to defeat any enemies he touches for a limited time. The player also earns 2,000 bonus points. Super Stars can also be dropped from dark green Flying ? Blocks and are used for boss battles only, functioning the same way they do outside the battle. When not used at all, 5,000 bonus points are added to the player's score.

In Mario's Time Machine, several Super Stars appear as statues in Bowser's Museum. Mario can use them as platforms to reach some doors.

Stars also appear in the first installment of the Wario Land series, Wario Land: Super Mario Land 3. Here, Wario is able to use the Star for the first time. Besides the theme that plays while invincible, the Star's effects have not changed much from the previous games. The Star also makes Wario run even faster.

Super Stars appear as rare power-ups in the first two installments of the Yoshi's Island series: Super Mario World 2: Yoshi's Island (as well as its Game Boy Advance version) and Yoshi's Island DS. In this appearance, it turns Yoshi into a giant Yoshi's Egg, and Baby Mario into Superstar Mario, a form which highly resembles Cape Mario from Super Mario World. In Yoshi's Island DS, Super Stars only appear in the levels Baby Mario and Baby Peach: Dynamic Duo, Castle of Big Guy the Stilted, Superhard Acrobatics! and Yoshi's Island Easter Eggs.
Though the Super Star does not appear in Yoshi's New Island, a similar item named Yoshi Star appears. Yoshi Stars are featured in two colors, and both turn Yoshi into Super Yoshi. The yellow ones make him invincible and let him run on walls and ceilings, while the red ones let him blast through enemies and walls for a brief time. Both forms can be prolonged by grabbing more Yoshi Stars of the same color.

In Mario's FUNdamentals, Super Stars are pictured in the Dominoes game, appearing on dominoes numbered 1.

Stars appear as an item in Super Mario RPG: Legend of the Seven Stars, where Mario can occasionally find the rare item and use it to defeat enemies on the overworld without engaging a battle. Doing this will still earn Mario experience points. The remake also uses the star in the Triple Move Starry Shell Spike.

Super Stars appear in some of the Modern remakes of Game & Watch games included in the Game & Watch Gallery series. In Game & Watch Gallery's Modern version of Fire, a Super Star might come out of a Yoshi Egg from the burning Mushroom Castle, and catching one is worth five points. In Game & Watch Gallery 2's Modern version of Parachute, a Super Star appears from one of the three Yoshi Eggs that come from the flying ship every 100 points. Just like in Game & Watch Gallery, collecting a Super Star is worth five points. In the game's Modern version of Helmet, a Super Star appears if the player collects 50 coins without getting a miss, and obtaining it is worth at least 20 points. In Game & Watch Gallery 3's Modern version of Turtle Bridge, a Super Star appears as one of the items Toad must deliver to Princess Peach if he continues delivering a melon without losing a life. Delivering a Super Star to her awards him 15 points.

Stars appear in every game of the Super Smash Bros. series. If players touch a Star, they will become invincible, allowing them to attack foes, without worrying about damage. However, unlike with the actual Super Mario games, players will not be able to hurt their opponents just by touching them. In the first two Super Smash Bros. games, the Super Star has a completely unique arrangement of its theme played, though from Super Smash Bros. Brawl onwards, the item uses its theme from Super Mario Bros. instead.
A Star also appears as a sticker in Super Smash Bros. Brawl, as well as an ACE-class support spirit in Super Smash Bros. Ultimate granting the fighter temporary invincibility if they land the first attack in battle.

Stars appear in the Bowser Stage from Mario Tennis. Stars also appear in Item Battle from Mario Power Tennis, and appear as the emblem of the Star Cup and on its trophy. In Mario Tennis Open, a Star is the emblem for the Final Cup, and appears on its trophy. A tennis racket, uniform, wrist bands, and shoes are designed based on this item and are available for Mii customization.

In the Game Boy Advance version of Mario Bros. included with the Super Mario Advance series and Mario & Luigi: Superstar Saga, Super Stars can be found in the Mario Bros. Battle 2-player mode. Specifically, they can hatch from Eggs, which are one of the items the player can obtain after busting out of a garbage can. They do not appear in the Mario Bros. Classic mode, the 3 or 4 player Battle mode, or any other version of the game.

In Nintendo Puzzle Collection, Super Stars make a very brief appearance in Yoshi no Cookie, appearing on flags held by Goomba and Koopa Troopa audience members at the beginning of a Versus Mode match.

Super Stars have made varying appearances in the Mario Golf series. In Mario Golf: Toadstool Tour, Super Stars are obstacles appearing only on Peach's Castle Grounds, where they also appear as tee markers. In Mario Golf: Advance Tour, Super Stars appear on certain Star Courses, and whenever one is hit, the player becomes "invincible" against whatever their current ball lie is, and the ball acts as if it were on the optimum playing surface. In Mario Golf: World Tour, when Mario or Gold Mario gets a Birdie or better in this game, his post-hole animation involves him grabbing a Star and running while invincible and then striking a pose. Also, when he gets an Eagle in this game, he grabs a star, defeats a few enemies, and jumps. This item is also used as tee markers in the Mario's Star course. A clothing set, golf ball, and set of golf clubs are designed based on the item, and are available for Miis to use. In Mario Golf: Super Rush, Mario uses the Super Star to transform into Rainbow Mario during his special shot, the Super Star Strike. Additionally, Super Stars are used during the Super Star Rush event in the Battle Golf mode.

Super Stars are briefly mentioned in Mario & Luigi: Superstar Saga and Mario & Luigi: Superstar Saga + Bowser's Minions, where they are said to be an ingredient of Invincishrooms.

While actual Super Stars do not appear in Mario & Luigi: Bowser's Inside Story and Mario & Luigi: Bowser's Inside Story + Bowser Jr.'s Journey, the Super Star appears as the icon of the Star Rank. Also, one of Bowser Memory M's attacks makes use of a (pixelated) Super Star, which works for him as normal Super Stars do in the 2D Super Mario games.

Super Stars appear in Mario & Luigi: Dream Team as part of the Mad Skillathon game featuring the Star Rocket attack. They are rare items, not appearing until just after the 150th small star. When collected, Mario and Luigi speed up and are able to destroy damage balloons for a limited time. Additionally, the Super Star appears as the icon of the Star Rank again. Also, the boss Dreamy Mario and his clones turn invincible during the chase scenes from a Super Star.

Only one Super Star appears in Mario & Luigi: Paper Jam in the form of a Papercraft item. Before the fight with Papercraft King Boo, the trio upon Papercraft Yoshi can find a floating Super Star and by using its tongue, they can pull it in and use it. While under the effects of the Super Star, Papercraft Yoshi can defeat enemies instantly, but it automatically wears off after all nearby Papercraft Goombas are defeated. The New Super Mario Bros. Wii version of the invincibility theme plays while in use. The Super Star does not reappear in the Battle Ring version of the fight. In addition, the Super Star is the icon of the Star Rank once more.

Super Stars in the Paper Mario series are actually seen as a sprite for the user's interface since Paper Mario: The Thousand-Year Door, where they are seen at the bottom right of a dialogue box, indicating that the player has to press a button to continue. A similar item known as a Mega Star appears in Super Paper Mario. From Paper Mario: Sticker Star onward, Super Stars themselves appear as collectibles.

Super Stars are briefly referenced in Paper Mario: The Thousand-Year Door, in which a camera-wielding Lakitu near the Glitz Pit remarks, "Stars make you invincible?"

In Paper Mario: Sticker Star, Super Stars can be found in levels and grant Mario invincibility, allowing him to defeat enemies without battling them, much like in Super Mario RPG: Legend of the Seven Stars. However, they are very rare, appearing only in Whammino Mountain, Rustle Burrow and Gauntlet Pond.

In Paper Mario: Color Splash, Super Stars appear in Kiwano Temple, The Golden Coliseum, and Sacred Forest, and are used in the same way as in Paper Mario: Sticker Star.

In Paper Mario: The Origami King, a Super Star appears after clearing the leaf memory game in Whispering Woods, where it is used to cross some beds of thorns to reach a Hidden Block and Collectible Treasure; at Picnic Road, as a possible reward of great fortune received from the fortune Toad; at Overlook Mountain, where it is used to destroy the Thwomps; and in King Shroomses's tomb in the Temple of Shrooms, where it is used to defeat the Scuttlebugs and Co Gasagoso.

In Mario Pinball Land, Invincibility Stars can be bought in Toad's tent, obtained from certain ? Blocks, or received from a roulette after the player gets a question mark. If the player goes to a different level while an Invincibility Star is still in effect, its effect continues in that level until it ends.

Stars only appear in Toy Field and Star Dash in Mario Superstar Baseball. A star can only be obtained by making the ball land on the slot and acquiring an item from the item slot. When a star is received, the star will take 30 coins from all other players and gives the player the 30 coins from each player. In Star Dash, the star may come out along with the coins that come out of the pipe-like mechanism. When the star is received, the player will receive 10 coins. When the player hits another player while the star is in effect, the player will steal 10 coins. The player can defeat Thwomps on the field also. The player must watch out for the Poison Mushrooms that come out. If the player touches a Poison Mushroom while invincible, the player will feel the Poison Mushroom effects and lose the star power up.

Since the item slot was dismissed in the Toy Field of Mario Super Sluggers, it appears in a minigame called Graffiti Runner. In this game, the star is one of the many power-ups found inside a treasure chest, in which the player must use the tackle button to open up. If the player acquires the star, they are invincible and impervious to almost all forms of attack, and are able to knock anyone else aside. However, the player is not fully invincible and will still get stunned by an earthquake caused by a larger player or a Chain Chomp. It also appeared in the Blooper Baserun minigame and shares the same thing.
Though stars do not appear as an item obtained in Toy Field, it can be found when the player makes the ball land on the "Jackpot" space. In one of these jackpots, there is an event where the player must choose a treasure chest to find a star. If the player did, they will receive coins.

Super Stars appear in the Nintendo DS version of Mario & Sonic at the Olympic Games, where they appear as an item on the Powerup Balls in the Dream Basketball event, under the name "Starman". If the player successfully throws a Powerup Ball with one on into a hoop, all of the balls that appear will be golden for a short while, and their icon on the top screen will change colors for the duration of the item's effect. They also appear in the Dream Canoe and Dream Long Jump events, where they grant the player temporary invincibility from all items, as well as increased speed in Dream Long Jump, indicated by character and their icon on the upper screen constantly changing color. In Dream Shooting, they are obtained by shooting an Item Box and are used automatically, giving the player unlimited shots for a short amount of time or until they move forward, and also cause their icon on the upper screen to constantly change color. In the Wii version, Starman items appear in Dream Race, where they grant the player invincibility from all items except for Boos for five seconds.

Super Stars appear as items in several Dream Events in the Nintendo DS version of Mario & Sonic at the Olympic Winter Games, including Ski Cross Racing, Rocket Ski Jumping, Extreme Snowboarding and Fever Hockey, where they grant the player invincibility and a speed boost for a short amount of time. In Ski Shooting, Super Stars also appear as an item but instead allow the player to achieve a combo by shooting targets of any color. 
In the Wii version, Super Stars appear as an item in both the Individual and Team versions of Dream Alpine, the Individual and Team versions of Dream Ski Cross and the Individual and Team versions of Dream Snowboard Cross, Dream Short Track, Dream Bobsleigh, Dream Snowball Fight and the Individual and Team versions of Dream Gliding, where they grant the player invincibility and a speed boost for a short amount of time. A Super Star also appears in the Mario World routine of Dream Figure Skating, in which the characters chase after the star for the duration of their routine. In Dream Ice Hockey, the Super Star appears as a standard item, where it grants characters increased speed, invincibility and the ability to knock over other characters, as well as one of the Wild Ball effects, where all of the characters receive the power up when it is collected.

Super Stars appear in the Nintendo 3DS version of Mario & Sonic at the Rio 2016 Olympic Games as an item in the 100m Plus event. When collected, they grant the player a speed boost for the remainder of the event. They also appear in Boxing Plus, where they give the character invincibility from all attacks and other items.

In Mario & Sonic at the Olympic Games Tokyo 2020, Super Stars appear as items in Dream Racing. They function like they do in the Mario Kart series, making the user invincible and causing any other racers they collide with to be knocked aside.

Super Stars in Mario Sports Mix retain their usual role of making the character invincible and has two theme songs. They also increase the speed and accuracy of the ball. In basketball and hockey, players cannot intercept the ball/puck when it is thrown. In volleyball, opposing players who touch the ball will be heavily immobilized for a while. In dodgeball, opposing players will immediately lose some health when hit, regardless of if the ball touches the ground or not. Stars are rare in this game.
In some missions, an item restriction may limit the items to Stars, making it possible for both teams to get that item at the same time.

Super Stars appear infrequently in the Mario Party series. They first appear in Mario Party: Island Tour, as usable items in Perilous Palace Path, and using one doubles the total number of spaces the player gets to move with the Dice Block. In Mario Party 10, Super Stars appear in the Cheep Cheep Leap minigame, where players have to use them to defeat as many Cheep Cheeps as they can in thirty seconds. In Super Mario Party Jamboree, a Super Star appears in Bowser Kamboom Squad after draining Impostor Bowser's health bar, granting all eight players invincibility to finish off Impostor Bowser for good.

In Puzzle & Dragons: Super Mario Bros. Edition Super Stars appear as the symbol for Light Orbs. They are also used as Skill Items. They raise the Skill levels of teammates whose Skill levels are under level 4 such as both forms of Peach, Bob-ombs, and all types/forms of Lakitus and Boos. Super Stars can be obtained by opening up ? Blocks; winning them from the Lucky ? Blocks game at Toad Houses; or from defeating Lakitus or Bob-ombs with a 10+ Combo attack.

In Mario Sports Superstars, Super Stars appear in the exact same golf post-hole animations from Mario Golf: World Tour, as well as Metal Mario's animations.

In Luigi's Mansion 3, a Super Star can be found in ScareScraper mode in some rooms. Once a Star is found, the player is granted temporary invincibility, runs faster, and can defeat ghosts without having to capture them with the Poltergust G-00. Stars can also appear in the Coin Floating minigame, where they will occasionally appear on the pool. When collected, it makes the player invincible to explosives for a short amount of time and allows the player to pop the other players' floaties to send them out of the pool.

In The Super Mario Bros. Movie, a Super Star contained in a ? Block is guarded by Penguins in their ice castle, only to have their castle destroyed and their Super Star stolen by Bowser after he and his Koopa Troop attack their kingdom. Serving as a MacGuffin similar to the Power Stars, while functioning like the power-up, Bowser plots to use the Star to take over the world and/or propose to Peach. By the end of the movie, Mario and Luigi use it to become invincible and defeat Bowser and his forces.

In Animal Crossing, Animal Crossing: Wild World, Animal Crossing: City Folk, Animal Crossing: New Leaf, and Animal Crossing: Pocket Camp, the Super Star (referred to as the Starman in the former three) appears as a furniture item. When interacted with, the invincibility theme plays and, in the original Animal Crossing, the player flashes.
In Punch-Out!! for the Wii, King Hippo wears underpants with a Super Star pattern.
The Super Mario Mash-up in Minecraft features a painting of a Super Star.
In Monopoly Gamer, the board contains four Super Star spaces. A player landing on one of these spaces may activate their "Super Star Ability" listed on their Character card.
In the Wii U and Nintendo Switch versions of LEGO City Undercover, the Pop Star character is unlocked by finding and building 5 Super Stars. A balloon shaped like a Super Star also appears in Festival Square.
In Okaeri! Chibi-Robo! Happy Richie Ōsōji!, a Super Star appears as a gem when sieving dirt. It is a very rare gem and is worth 5000 Moolah. When picked up, it plays the invincibility theme from Super Mario Bros. and will keep playing as long as it is held. It is also seen on a face-in-hole board that appears when every gem in the game is found.