A Super Mushroom (originally known as a Magic Mushroom, and also known as a Power Booster Mushroom, a Power-Up Mushroom, or simply a Mushroom) is a red mushroom with white spots that serves a particular function depending on the game in which it is found. Its first and most common effect is causing Small Mario to turn into his Super form, allowing him to smash through bricks and take an extra hit from enemies. In other games, it heals Mario and others who use it. The Poison Mushroom can be considered its opposite, a mushroom item that hurts the player. Both this and the standard mushroom are designed after the poisonous Amanita muscaria, with the shape resembling a button mushroom.
The idea for Super Mushrooms was originally believed to have been inspired by the cake that Alice eats in Alice's Adventures in Wonderland that makes her grow after having been shrunk by a potion. However, Shigeru Miyamoto later corrected himself, saying that this was a misunderstanding; the mushrooms were actually inspired by the concept of mushrooms being associated with magical worlds in general, like the wonderland of Alice's Adventures in Wonderland and the Mushroom Kingdom. Regardless, the item has become one of the most iconic items in video game history, and it is almost as known as Mario himself.

Super Mario Bros. is the first Super Mario game to feature Magic Mushrooms. The first one appears in the second ? Block of World 1-1. Though eyeless, the mushroom's colors resemble those of a Mega Mushroom (as of New Super Mario Bros.), though they were changed to the standard white-spotted red cap with eyes in Super Mario All-Stars.
Touching one will turn Mario into Super Mario, making his body grow. While Super, he gains the ability to break Brick Blocks and allows him to take one more hit from an enemy (shrinking down to Small Mario before losing a life). Also, when Super Mario gets hit, his image will flicker and he will be temporarily invulnerable during this time. If Mario is Super, a Fire Flower will appear in place of a Magic Mushroom's power-up location. However, if Mario takes a hit before getting the Fire Flower, it will act as a Magic Mushroom instead, just making him big.
Like any enemy, if a Magic Mushroom comes in contact with a wall, it will turn around. Just like 1-Up Mushrooms, players can make Magic Mushrooms jump by hitting any viable block (Brick, ? or Coin Blocks); doing so before a Magic Mushroom passes over the block's center can even change its direction entirely. A Magic Mushroom moves at the same speed as Mario's walking speed.

Super Mushrooms return in Super Mario Bros.: The Lost Levels, working exactly as they do in Super Mario Bros. Also, Super Mushrooms receive eyes in this game for the first time, making them look even more like Mega Mushrooms. Poison Mushrooms look almost identical to Super Mushrooms, except that they are the same colors as Goombas (brown in ground levels, blue in caves, and gray/white in castles); they were given unique designs in Super Mario All-Stars and Super Mario Bros. Deluxe.

In Super Mario Bros. 3, Super Mushrooms again return, but still grant the player the same abilities. They use their now standard shape, appearing more circular than in previous appearances. A difference in their behavior is that they can now also move to the left if the player stands to the right of the block, forcing them to chase after the Mushroom. In the original Super Mario Bros. 3, Super Mushrooms are colored white with red spots, but in subsequent remakes, those colors are changed to the as-of-Super Mario World standard: red cap with white spots. However, the map's item inventory retains the error.
Poison Mushrooms return in the GBA remake, with a white-skulled blue cap.

Super Mushrooms make a return in Super Mario Land. This game gives it the unique distinction of lacking spots. They once again turn Mario into Super Mario, allowing him to take one hit without dying and break Brick Blocks. Unlike in most other games, however, they fall straight down if they fall off an edge, rather than at an angle. They also are not able to move to the left anymore, like they were in Super Mario Bros. 3.

Super Mushrooms reappear in Super Mario World, where they function the same as before. Super Mushrooms tend to "leap" out of the bushes sometimes for the player to receive. However, in this game, grabbing one while in Super, Fire, or Cape form will put it in the Item Stock, regardless of any reserve items. As of this game, they also aren't as necessary, as grabbing a higher-tiered power-up, like a Fire Flower or Cape Feather, immediately turns Small Mario into the respective form. This game also marked the debut of the Super Mushroom's current design, reverting back to the Mushrooms' coloration from Super Mario Bros. 2, though with its Super Mario Bros. 3 proportions intact. In #4 Ludwig's Castle, there is a Super Mushroom next to a door that leads to the next room. During the battle against Bowser, Peach aids Mario/Luigi by tossing him a Super Mushroom between each phase.

In Super Mario Land 2: 6 Golden Coins, the Super Mushroom, looking identical to its Super Mario World appearance,  once again changes Mario into Super Mario with the usual results. However, unlike in Super Mario Land, it also allows him to perform a Spin Jump (from Super Mario World) to hit or break blocks beneath him by pressing  and jumping or while in midair. Unlike other games, Mario reverts back to Super Mario if he obtains a Super Mushroom while taking a higher-tier form.

Mushrooms appear exclusively in Super Mario 64 DS, but this time, they make the characters grow extremely large for a limited time, similar to the effect of a Mega Mushroom. This allows the characters to destroy objects or enemies simply by touching them. They earn an extra life for each object or enemy that they destroy after the first seven. Yoshi, when receiving this power-up, throws punches like the others instead of using his tongue and can break Bricks.

In New Super Mario Bros., Super Mushrooms return, working as they did in the classic 2D Super Mario games. Unlike in Super Mario World, however, they do not replace higher-tiered power-ups as a Stored Item (like the Fire Flower), instead simply giving 1000 points to the player. They use a design similar to that of the Dash Mushroom from Mario Kart DS.

In New Super Mario Bros. Wii, Super Mushrooms are not changed, except that the number of Mushrooms that appear out of blocks depends on the number of players there are, as well as their current forms, as one will appear for every Small or Mini player currently active. However, with two to four players, if every person does not have a power-up (excluding Mini form), one higher class power-up (such as a Fire Flower) will appear. Super Mushrooms can also appear in Kamek's boss fight, as he may use his magic to turn platforms into Super Mushrooms.

Super Mario 3D Land is the first original 3D Super Mario game to include Super Mushrooms. They turn Mario from Small Mario to Super Mario, just as in the 2D Super Mario games. If Mario collects a Super Mushroom when the player already has a power-up in the item storage, the player earns ten coins instead. Unlike in previous games, they are not as necessary, since Mario starts out each life as Super Mario. Morty Moles also drop a Super Mushroom sometimes. Poison Mushrooms also return in the Special Worlds, but they have angry eyes and a pink-spotted purple cap.

Super Mushrooms appear in New Super Mario Bros. 2, acting the same as they did in previous side-scrolling games.

The Super Mushrooms appear in New Super Mario Bros. U, acting the same as in other games.

Super Mushrooms return in Super Mario 3D World and Super Mario 3D World + Bowser's Fury, acting the same as in other games. However, like in Super Mario 3D Land, they are less important to collect, because Mario, Luigi, Princess Peach, Toad, Captain Toad, and Rosalina start each life in their Super forms.
Goomba Towers sometimes carry Super Mushrooms; the player can touch the GamePad touchscreen to pop the bubble to get them from the Goomba Towers.
Super Mushrooms also appear in Bowser's Fury, where they sometimes appear in ? Blocks, and can be added to the item storage if Mario already has a power-up. As of version 1.1.0, when Mario collects 100 coins before leaving Fur Step Island, only Super Mushrooms are awarded, rather than any item.

The Super Mushroom appears as an element in Super Mario Maker and Super Mario Maker for Nintendo 3DS in every game style. They can make enemies larger and, after an update, can be stacked on power-ups. Dragging a Super Mushroom into an already enlarged object will make it even bigger, but it will cough it out, returning to its previous size, as enlarged objects cannot get any bigger than they already are. After clearing the four Nintendo World Championships 2015 courses, shaking a Super Mushroom in the Super Mario Bros. style turns it into a Weird Mushroom, though when playing courses, hitting a block with a Super Mushroom has a 1% chance of a Weird Mushroom appearing instead, regardless of whether or not it has been unlocked.

Super Mushrooms return in Super Mario Run and have the same purpose in other games, to turn Small Mario/Luigi into Super Mario/Luigi. Super Mushrooms can sometimes be found outside of blocks. In certain cases, a Super Mushroom found outside of a block may not move at all; some courses even have a floating Super Mushroom. Super Mushrooms that do move have behavior unique to this game: If the player is ahead of a Super Mushroom and the Super Mushroom is moving toward them, the Super Mushroom speeds up to collide with the player. The player can outrun a Super Mushroom during a Coin Rush or while they are invincible. Super Mushrooms do not move past the player once they are in this "chasing" state outside of certain circumstances involving cutscenes. Once a Super Mushroom reaches the player's vertical position, it switches to moving at the same speed as the player.
If Mario and Luigi are already in their Super forms when they grab a Super Mushroom, they get five coins instead. Super Mario Run does not have item storage, unlike  Super Mario World, the New Super Mario Bros. series, Super Mario 3D Land, and Super Mario 3D World. 
In versions of Super Mario Run prior to the Fall 2017 update, Peach, Toad, Toadette, and Yoshi did not have small forms to shrink into when getting hit. Therefore, Super Mushrooms had no effect on them. Their default state acted identically to Super Mario, as they were as tall as Super Mario and could break Brick Blocks. They received five coins for Super Mushrooms instead, but they were defeated by one hit.
In versions since the Fall 2017 update, Peach, Toad, Toadette, and Yoshi gained small forms to shrink into upon being hit. They continue to start levels in the large form. If they are defeated by pits, poison or lava, they enter a bubble in small form. Thus, Super Mushrooms turn them back into their regular big forms. If they are already at their normal size, these characters get five coins instead.
In Remix 10, if the player collects 100 coins while small, the coin counter resets and the player is given a Super Mushroom in a bubble.
There is a Super Mushroom Statue item in the Kingdom Builder mode, The 8-bit Super Mushroom Trim and 8-bit Super Mushroom Statue are other Kingdom Builder items that use the Super Mushroom's appearance from Super Mario Bros.

No Super Mushrooms appear in Super Mario Odyssey, although a number of mushroom-shaped objects, such as Starshrooms, do appear.

Super Mushrooms return in Super Mario Maker 2 functioning the same way they did in its predecessor. In the nighttime ground theme, Super Mushrooms bounce away from the player.

Super Mushrooms appear in Super Mario Bros. 35. If collected by Super or Fire Mario, they add 15 seconds to the timer instead of changing Mario's power-up state. The Item Roulette has a chance of granting the player a Super Mushroom.

Super Mushrooms appear in Super Mario Bros. Wonder, acting the same as in other games.

In the Super Mario World episode "King Scoopa Koopa", a Super Mushroom appears as one of the items in the Roulette Block. This is the only time a Super Mushroom is depicted in the DIC Entertainment-produced cartoons.

Super Mushrooms, referred to as Power-up Mushrooms, reappear in Yoshi's Safari. They are dropped from Flying ? Blocks. When dropped from a yellow Flying ? Block, some of the player's LIFE Meter is recovered and they earn 1,500 bonus points. Power-up Mushrooms can also be dropped from dark teal Flying ? Blocks and are used for boss battles only, functioning the same way they do outside the battle. When not used at all, 2,000 bonus points are added to the player's highscore.

Super Mushrooms also make an appearance in Donkey Kong for the Game Boy. They are used by Donkey Kong shortly before the final battle. He ends up using several of them to transform himself into a giant. A Super Mushroom is also briefly seen in the ending when Pauline gives one to Mario, so that he can change his size and catch Donkey Kong when he is falling.

The Super Mushroom appears in Hotel Mario. It still gives Mario an extra hitpoint, but it now affects the color of his overalls instead of his size.
In the v0.09 prototype, Super Mushrooms are Toad instead.

In UNDAKE30 Same Game, Super Mushrooms appear as one of the icons on the playing field.

In Mario's FUNdamentals, images of Super Mushrooms appear in the Dominoes game on dominoes numbered 5.

In Super Mario RPG: Legend of the Seven Stars, Super Mushrooms, localized as Mid Mushrooms, appear as healing items. They have green caps to distinguish them from ordinary Mushrooms and restore 80 HP to one party member when used.

In Mario Party 2 and 3, the Super Mushroom is gold and is localized as the Golden Mushroom. It is an item that allows players to roll three Dice Blocks on their turn. It is stated to be Mario's favorite item in the latter game. Rolling three of the same number earns the player 20 Coins, and rolling three sevens earns the player a 50 coin bonus; additionally, the "new record" music plays. In the former game, a different type of Golden Mushroom appears alongside normal Mushrooms in Rakin' 'em In and Grab Bag.
The Golden Mushroom is replaced by the Super Mega Mushroom in Mario Party 4. In Mario Party 5, it returns as the Super Mushroom Capsule, which itself returns under the name "Super 'Shroom Orb" in 6 and 7. It is in turn replaced by the Thrice Candy in Mario Party 8.

In Paper Mario, the Super Mushroom is localized as the Super Shroom. It has a blue cap and heals 10 HP for one party member. Mario can use it to make various mushroom-based recipes, like Life Shrooms, with other basic items. Super Shrooms can be bought in Harry's Shop, Boo's Mansion, Yoshi's Village, Shiver City, Star Haven, Rip Cheato, and Bowser's Castle. White Li'l Oinks also leave them. 

In Paper Mario: The Thousand-Year Door, Super Mushrooms (originally referred to as Super Shrooms) can be bought at Westside Goods, the souvenir shop, Twilight Shop, Keelhaul Galleria, Sales Stall and Northwinds Mart, and can be dropped by certain enemies.

In Super Paper Mario, Super Shrooms can be found within ? Blocks found in stages midway through the game. Here, they heal 20 HP on contact with the player, as opposed to the usual 10 in the previous two games. Their carry-on equivalent is the Super Shroom Shake.

The Super Mushroom appears as an item in all games of the Super Smash Bros. series, starting with Super Smash Bros. Melee. It allows any fighter to grow to a bigger size, thus making them heavier and harder to launch, while also increasing their run and fall speed. Giga Bowser and Giga Mac are unaffected by Super Mushrooms, since they are already very large. A Super Mushroom also increases the amount of damage that the fighter can deal to opponents, in addition to improving the fighter's reach in their attacks. Starting with Super Smash Bros. Brawl, all direct attacks can deal 1.56x their normal damage while the fighter is giant-sized, and they only move right upon emerging. The damage multiplier excludes projectile attacks, however. Aesthetically, the user's voice is also lower-pitched. In Melee, they resemble the appearance of  generic Mushrooms in Mario Party 2; their modern design (adapted from the Mushrooms in Mario Kart DS) is used for Super Smash Bros. Brawl and all subsequent appearances. A Super Mushroom is also the symbol of the Super Mario franchise.
Throughout the series, there have also been collectible items of a Super Mushroom. In Super Smash Bros. Melee, a Super Mushroom can be randomly obtained from the Lottery or in one of the single-player modes. In Super Smash Bros. Brawl, there is both a trophy and a sticker of a Super Mushroom, both of which are unlocked at random. The sticker, simply named "Mushroom," can be used in The Subspace Emissary by either Mario, Luigi, Peach, Bowser, or Yoshi to increase the power of their arm- and leg-based attacks by 5 points. In Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS and Super Smash Bros. for Wii U, there is another trophy of a Super Mushroom, again unlocked at random. In Super Smash Bros. Ultimate, there is an Advanced-class support spirit of a Super Mushroom, which increases the fighter's attack, defense, and speed after eating food, and it can be obtained from Timmy & Tommy's shop. A Super Mushroom spirit's core can be combined with Metal Mario's and a Fire Flower's cores to summon the Gold Mario spirit.

In the Mario & Luigi series, Super Mushrooms refill 50 HP (45 HP in the Japanese version of Mario & Luigi: Superstar Saga) in Mario & Luigi: Superstar Saga, Mario & Luigi: Superstar Saga + Bowser's Minions, and Mario & Luigi: Bowser's Inside Story + Bowser Jr.'s Journey, 40 HP in Mario & Luigi: Partners in Time, and 60 HP in Mario & Luigi: Bowser's Inside Story, Mario & Luigi: Dream Team, and Mario & Luigi: Paper Jam.

In the WarioWare series, a Super Mushroom first appears in the Grow Wario Grow microgame in WarioWare, Inc.: Mega Microgame$!, where Wario has to collect it before Mario does. After this appearance, Super Mushrooms went on to appear in a few of 9-Volt's microgames. In WarioWare: Twisted! and later WarioWare Gold, Super Mushrooms appear in the Super Mario Bros. microgame, where Mario can obtain a Super Mushroom from a ? Block, just like in its namesake game. In Level 2 of the Super Mario Land microgame in WarioWare: Get It Together!, the player's character is required to hit a ? Block and collect the Super Mushroom inside. Upon collecting it, the character grows in size.

Super Mushrooms appear as items in the Dream Basketball event in the Nintendo DS version of Mario & Sonic at the Olympic Games. If a Powerup Ball with one on is successfully thrown into a hoop, the player's hoops will become larger for a short amount of time. They also appear as items in Dream Shooting, where they can be obtained by shooting an Item Box. In this event, they are used immediately and give the player a larger cursor for a limited amount of time, or until they move forward.

The DSiWare game Mario Clock features both Super and Poison Mushrooms.

Super Mushrooms also return in Captain Toad: Treasure Tracker and its Nintendo Switch and Nintendo 3DS ports. Like in the main series of games, Super Mushrooms turn Small Captain Toad and Small Toadette into their Super forms. If the player collects a Super Mushroom while the character is in Super form, they instead earn 10 coins like in Super Mario 3D Land.

In Mario Kart 8 and Mario Kart 8 Deluxe, a Super Mushroom emerging from a block appears as a cameo in a Super Mario Bros.-styled graffiti on the underground wall in Super Bell Subway.

The Super Mushroom can be bumped or dumped by vases or ghosts respectively instead of the Poison Mushroom in the Nintendo 3DS remake of Luigi's Mansion for the Nintendo 3DS by using the Mario amiibo figurine. It restores 25 HP upon collecting.

In Mario + Rabbids Sparks of Hope, Super Mushrooms appear as items that restore 30% of a hero's HP in battle. There are also Super Mushroom Bags, Super Mushroom Chests, and Super Mushroom Chest DXs, which restore 50%, 70%, and 100% of HP respectively.
If Mario + Rabbids Sparks of Hope is linked with an Ubisoft Connect account, one Super Mushroom can be added to the player's inventory for free upon clearing the prologue.

In The Super Mario Bros. Movie, Princess Peach feeds Mario a Super Mushroom (known in the film as a red mushroom) before testing him on the Training Course. Every time Mario takes damage on the Training Course, he eats another red mushroom before running it again. Mario is also seen eating a red mushroom to transform into Super Mario before fighting Bowser's minions with Donkey Kong. Mario initially has a disdain towards eating the mushrooms, and at one point during the training montage, ends up throwing up for eating too many of them.

A Super Mushroom briefly appears in Wreck-It Ralph as one of the many items Ralph finds in the lost-and-found behind Tapper.

An unused Super Mushroom can be found in the files of Super Mario Galaxy.