The Super Blooper (known as the Turbo Blooper in the British English version in its debut game) is a kart in the Mario Kart series. It resembles a Blooper with two striped tentacles sticking out from its sides, with the emblem above each of them. Two more tentacles serve as the exhaust pipes. In terms of general shape, it resembles a Porsche 911. The side tentacles move when the vehicle boosts and the wings twist upward when the vehicle brakes, as if swimming.

The Super Blooper debuts in Mario Kart Wii as a medium-sized kart. The kart's bike counterpart is the Dolphin Dasher (which is also based on an aquatic Super Mario character); however, the kart is actually lighter than its bike counterpart, while being slightly faster. It can be unlocked by winning the 50cc Leaf Cup, or by playing 300 races.
The Super Blooper features good speed (tied with the Shooting Star) and great off-road (tied with the Booster Seat), but it also has the worst drifting among the medium vehicles and the second worst drift among the karts, only behind the Offroader. Its drift is tied with the Wario Bike for the third worst drifting in the game behind the Offroader and the Phantom. If Daisy rides the Super Blooper, it can pass the Honeycoupe's  and Bullet Bike's default speed by one point. Its other stats are average. It is also the lightest medium kart in the game, and has the best off-road stat of all the medium karts. Its weight is tied with the Sneakster. Its acceleration (tied with the Blue Falcon) is slightly below average.

The Super Blooper returns in Mario Kart Tour, where it is classified as a Super kart. Unlike its Mario Kart Wii appearance, it only has a red stripe color scheme (shared by Mario and Diddy Kong) no matter which driver is using it, and its side tentacles and wings no longer move. The Super Blooper uses the Pipe Frame's tires and increases the duration of Mini-Turbo speed boosts and the amount of points earned for performing Mini-Turbos.
The game introduces a golden variant, simply named the Gold Blooper, which is also classified as a Super Kart.
The Super Blooper is available in each tour's First Pipe and Second Pipe and is also a part of the Daily Selects base set. It has also been obtainable by other means, shown in the following table.