Super Smash Bros. Brawl is a fighting game for the Wii. It is the third game within the Super Smash Bros. series, following after Super Smash Bros. Melee. The game was designed by Masahiro Sakurai and developed by a team that was specifically created for it. The game engine is titled Havok, provided by the Irish company of the same name, and it focuses mainly on the game physics. After a planned release date of December 3, 2007 in North America, all regions had their release dates pushed back. It was then slated for release on February 10, 2008 in North America, and January 24, 2008 for Japan. However, on January 15, 2008, it was then delayed to January 31, 2008 for Japan and March 9, 2008 for North America. It was released in Oceania on June 26, 2008 and in Europe on June 27, 2008.

 
The basic controls are essentially the same as in the previous two games. Fighters have to attack their opponents to increase their percentage. The amount of damage affects how far the players can be knocked back. The objective is to knock opponents off the blast line to score a KO. The  involves basic moves while the  has the character perform special moves. Players can do several moves depending on where  is tilted. If players are knocked from the stage, they can use their midair jump and special moves, typically  and tilting up on  to recover. Most attacks can be blocked by shielding, though it shrinks the longer from either the player holding the button or the shield blocking attacks. If the shield is too small, the player is vulnerable to shield stabs. If the shield breaks, the player is temporarily stunned. Grabbing allows the player to either pummel the opponent with the attack button or throw them with . An opponent can be released from a grab by moving the control stick and mashing buttons, though opponents at higher percentages struggle to release more. Characters can use one of three taunts, two more than in previous games. The tether recovery allows fighters to grab onto ledges using chain-like items, such as a Plasma Whip or a Hookshot. Even Natural combos are simpler, since holding it down is enough for the character to start a combo attack.
The game introduces a variety of moves and abilities. There is Footstool Jump technique, reminiscent of the different varieties of jumping within the Super Mario franchise, and it allows fighters to jump onto another fighter up to five times and spring up by pressing the jump button at the right time. Another added technique is gliding, available only to winged characters, as well as crawling for certain fighters. Gliding fighters can direct themselves upwards or downwards, depending on which direction the  or the  is held. All fighters can slip, which has no benefit besides the invincibility frames given to them while getting up. Slipping occurs when players either try to run suddenly, go down slopes, turn around, or walk on a Banana Peel. Players are now able to walk and jump while using projectile-shooting items.
The most major addition is the Final Smash, a powerful special move involving either a strong attack, character transformation, or stage hazard that most likely results in an opponent being KO'd.
Like previous games, items appear randomly. In Brawl mode only, the player can set certain items to not appear and adjust how commonly each type of item appears. Items are more common on stages representing the same franchise, such as Super Mushrooms in Super Mario stages.
Players can make customizable button configurations and save them on the Wii Remote's internal memory. They can insert names with up to five letters, as in Super Smash Bros. Melee, though names can now have custom button configurations applied to them by default. If the player is using a Nintendo GameCube Controller or a Classic Controller, tilting  or  while on the main menu will change the camera angle. There are four controller options, listed below with their default control configurations:

Super Smash Bros. Brawl has 35 playable characters (39, if Sheik, Zero Suit Samus, and the Pokémon Trainer's three Pokémon are counted, each), ten more than in Super Smash Bros. Melee. 21 characters (25 if counting the four aforementioned characters) are playable directly from the start, while the other fourteen have to be unlocked to become playable; as new characters are unlocked, they can be seen amongst the fighters in the opening scene. Only five fighters from the previous game were not added to the roster: Roy, Dr. Mario, Young Link, Pichu, and Mewtwo. The game adds fifteen newcomers (18 counting Zero Suit Samus and the Pokémon Trainer's Pokémon). Super Smash Bros. Brawl is the first game with fighters from third-party franchises, particularly Sonic and Snake.
Of the roster, eight characters are from the Super Mario franchise: Mario, Luigi, Princess Peach, Bowser, Donkey Kong, Diddy Kong, Yoshi, and Wario.

There are 41 total stages in Super Smash Bros. Brawl. 10 of these stages are returning stages from Super Smash Bros. Melee.

Adventure Mode: The Subspace Emissary is the game's adventure mode. Taking place in the World of Trophies, The Subspace Emissary has a full-length plot and several stages, being more advanced than its equivalent from Super Smash Bros. Melee. The main map shows the world map and which places can be entered, and when the player selects a stage, they can choose which characters in their team to use, with the number of options increasing as the storyline progresses. The player can use stickers, each granting a certain effect such as resistance or an increases statistic.
The mode features the following stages:

When starting Classic mode, the player chooses a character before going through a series of battles against other fighters. Players go through stages in a certain order, such as a Super Mario stage always being the eighth one. A few of the matches have certain conditions set, like in the mode's previous iteration in Super Smash Bros. Melee. A few examples are the player fighting a giant version of an opponent, either with two allies (only against Giant Yoshi), one ally, or none, or the player fighting a metal version of another player. A small heart appears next to a teammate's logo in matches with allies. When a level is finished, the score is added up, and the player earns coins, which can be used in the Coin Launcher.
Clearing this mode will give the player a trophy of the character used to complete it. When finishing it as Zelda or Sheik, the player can only get the trophy of her current form, like with Samus and Zero Suit Samus. For Pokémon Trainer, Classic Mode must be completed three separate times, each with one of his Pokémon, as clearing it only rewards the player with the trophies of the Trainer and the Pokémon in use when it was cleared.

All-Star mode returns from Super Smash Bros. Melee. It is an unlockable mode that becomes available once all fighters have been unlocked. In addition to single player, the mode supports two players, unlike before, and opponents are sorted by series (and the chronology of their game releases) instead of at random. No more than two foes appear during a battle, excluding the Pokémon stage, because the Pokémon Trainer uses each Pokémon separately.
If All-Star is beaten in Co-op mode, the Final Smash trophies of both characters are unlocked. Similarly to Classic, finishing the mode with Zelda/Sheik or Samus/Zero Suit Samus does not also unlock the trophy of the other form, requiring the mode to be cleared twice. Unlike Classic mode, Pokémon Trainer has only one trophy unlocked for All-Star mode.

Events return from Super Smash Bros. Melee, and they are battles with predefined objectives, many of which involve defeating a certain opponent. From the menu, each event is represented by a small preview screenshot, and every event has a selectable difficulty setting (Easy, Normal, or Hard). Several events are also available in two-player co-op mode. The events include:

This mode requires two human players, and has different events from the single-player mode (excluding one which was also an event in Single-Player Mode).

Various minigames are playable in the Stadium, most of which return from Super Smash Bros. Melee.

Training is a returning mode in which the player can learn basic controls or experiment with certain functions and items. One to three CPU-controlled fighters can be fought, but there is the option for them to be motionless. Any item can be spawned, which includes the Smash Ball for practicing the character's Final Smash. The hit damage of the CPU can be predefined. The player can set the mode in either slow or quick motion.

This is the game's iteration of Versus Mode, in which 2-4 players or computers may battle. Players can select their characters (and optionally an alternate costume), and select the stage to play on. When selecting a fighter with more than one form on the character select screen, the player can choose which form to begin with by clicking the other form, such as Sheik for Zelda. When starting a battle, as the announcer counts down, each fighter appears onscreen with their own animation, such as Mario emerging from a Warp Pipe. A handicap can be set anywhere from 0% damage to 300%, and the handicap has no effect the player's attack strength and knockback resistance, unlike Super Smash Bros. Melee. Even if a player with a handicap is KO'd, they return onscreen with the same handicap percentage of damage.

This feature allows the player to control a wide variety of settings for Group mode. The three most basic rules include:

Players can adjust not only the handicap, but also the damage ratio, which affects how far a damaged player is launched. The damage ratio is at 1.0 by default, but it can be adjusted to anywhere between 0.5 to 2.0. Players can also determine how the stages are selected, which is by choosing it themselves before each round, but there is a setting to make the loser of the previous battle pick the stage instead. It is possible to determine which items appear and at what frequency.
More rules can be unlocked once at least 200 KOs have been done in Group mode: adjusting the time limit for a stock match; the ability to attack teammates; the inability to pause; displaying the score; and hiding damage percentages. When every stage is unlocked, the player can have the game select a random stage for them to play on.

Special Brawl allows for certain customizations before starting a battle. Players can attach items, set stats, and add appearance differences to every player from the start, without having to collect the items themselves. Unlike the Special Melee modes of Super Smash Bros. Melee, the player can use more than one option in Special Brawl. For stamina battles, the player can decide to start anywhere from 1 HP to 300 HP.

Rotation is a multiplayer mode that expands upon the Winner Out/Loser Out Tournament modes of Super Smash Bros. Melee. Up to sixteen players can play on the same system, with the controller being passed after each battle. Players can optionally use their name and personal controller configuration. The option between Winner Out and Loser Out is still retained, where the controller is given over to the next player after winning or losing, respectively. Players can pause to move themselves at the end of a queue. It remains possible to change one's character in the middle of the mode, like in Super Smash Bros. Melee.

The Tourney mode is the same as the Tournament Mode from Super Smash Bros. Melee. Several players compete in the tourney, each fighting to compete in the championship and win. It is possible to play with friends, or battle CPU characters. Besides decreasing the number of players from 64 to 32 and allowing for more fighters to appear on stage than controllers, little of the mode has changed from Super Smash Bros. Melee.

In the mode, players from different parts of the world could compete in a match in either With Friends or With Anyone. The farther apart they were, the slower the connection was. This mode became unavailable as of May 20, 2014, when Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection shut down.
The With Friends mode was restricted only to players who had each other's friend code. Players could choose an emblem, either of the represented series, the characters' icons, or Miis. Players could use taunts to send across one of four messages by pressing up, left, right, or down on the . The Home-Run Contest and Multi-Man Brawl were both also available.

The With Anyone setting was self-explanatory, though players could not send messages nor see the name or details of their opponent. It was not possible to record the results of a battle, unlike in With Friends. In Basic Brawl, players fought in a free for all with two-minute matches. The only setting that could be changed was which items would appear in battle, and the game would select either of the player's preferences. If fewer than four players were present, a CPU filled in for any missing fighter, including those who disconnected during a battle. In Team Brawl, either while the game was loading or players were waiting for opponents, they could practice by attacking the Sandbag from Super Smash Bros. Melee. Players had the choice to spectate the battle and even bet coins on the winner of a match.

The Vault features a variety of obtainable items.

A different set of trophies appear in Super Smash Bros. Brawl than in Super Smash Bros. Melee. When a trophy is selected, a description of the character or object portrayed will be displayed, just like in the previous game. There are a total of 544 different trophies to collect. Many trophies can be placed as a part of dioramas, and there are more backgrounds to add to the feature.

Stickers are pieces of 2D game artwork that appear during a stage at random. They are single-use items that power up a fighter in The Subspace Emissary. Unlike trophies, it is possible to obtain more than one sticker of the same type. Any collected stickers are stored in an album, and similarly to trophies, they can decorate a screen using different backgrounds.

The de facto successor of the Lottery from Super Smash Bros. Melee, Coin Launcher involves using coins to obtain various trophies and stickers. The player controls the Coin Launcher, a cannon that shoots any collected coins. A few types of several moving objects show up regularly, and each type travels across the screen in a different formation and direction. Often, if every enemy has been shot in a particular group formation, the player will receive a sticker. Trophies move across the screen in a predetermined manner. A trophy can be collected upon hitting it with two or four coins. The main hazards are missiles, which are aimed towards the Coin Launcher, with each one taking two hits to destroy. Missiles move at varying speeds, and they sometimes show up in groups. The player loses ten coins any time a missile hits the Coin Launcher. A green gauge on the bottom left of the screen can be filled up completely to allow the player to rapid-fire coins for a short time. It is filled slightly whenever a missile is destroyed, or a certain number of moving objects, but decreases when hit by a missile.

Stage Builder allows for the creation of custom stages. Players have to first choose the size of the stage, decide on the backdrop, and the background music. After doing so, the player can begin to add pieces to the stage, including platforms, ladders, and spikes. Pieces can be flipped, resized, zoomed, have their palettes swapped, or be erased. Once a fraction of the stage has been built, the player has the option of trying it out before saving. Once the stage is completed, the player can choose a name and comment, or change the background music. It was possible to send the custom stage to other players via Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection. It also used to be possible to send the stage to Nintendo using the "Submit" option on the Stage Builder screen, and every day through Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection, Nintendo would switch between a custom stage for players to try out.

Challenges consists of 128 specific objectives that the player can fulfill to unlock trophies, stages, CDs, stickers, Stage Builder parts, and Masterpieces. Each of the unfinished challenges are locked behind a closed window. When the player unlocks an item by winning a challenge, any unobtained items to the left and right of it on the menu appears in a red silhouette, and their method of unlocking is displayed. Golden Hammers could be won and used once on a window of the player's choice (excluding those involving boss battles), allowing the player to get the reward immediately without fulfilling the objective.

Screenshots can be taken by the player while pausing the game and saved either on the Wii's internal memory or an SD card. The feature was upgraded over the special camera mode from Super Smash Bros. Melee.

Replays allow players to rewatch a recorded battle. They are usable in a single Brawl in Group Mode, Target Smash!!, Home-Run Contest, or Multi-Man Brawl. A replay can be recorded by pressing the Z button within three minutes after the match or challenge has ended. Replays are saved to either the Vault or on an SD card directly. Target Smash!! and Home-Run Contest records could be submitted to Nintendo prior to June 30, 2009.

The player can try out certain classical Nintendo games for a limited amount of time. The available demos are the following:

Some of the Masterpieces are unlockable:

The player can look at a list of various video games from Nintendo as well as their release dates. The titles are organized by which systems they were released for. More titles are added to the Chronicle as more trophies and Stickers are collected from their games.

Various settings can be changed, including the aspect ratio, the graphics, the rumble feature, set control schemes to assign to names, and adjust the music and sound effect volume while having quick access to the Sound Test. Lastly, there is the option to erase all data or of certain records only.

Every stage has a selection of music tracks originating usually from the game series, and players can choose which music track to play on a stage using the My Music mode. It is not possible to play every existing track on any of the stages. The player can adjust how like a song is to play on a stage. More tracks become available as more CDs are collected.

A variety of random content can be looked at from the Data section. There are four-page records of group matches: The first page is a chart showing the number of KOs fighters have performed on each other; the second page shows the top five fighters for each of several stats, such as KO's, falls, self-destructs, victories, losses, peak damage, walking distance, the time spent swimming, and more; the third page lists all the same stats for every fighter; and the fourth and final page similarly lists all the same stats for each name, including their first, second, and least commonly used fighters. Players can also view miscellaneous gameplay sections, such as the total time played, the number of matches played, the commonly used fighter, and number of trophies collected. Notices are also saved in the order in which they had been shown. Any cutscenes from The Subspace Emissary that have been played at least once can be rewatched from Movies, as well as five other pre-rendered videos: How to Play, the E3 2006 trailer, another introductory video, and a video on the two third-party fighters each, Sonic and Snake. From the Sound Test, the player can hear different sound effects and listen to various songs, each showing which game they are from when selected.

Masahiro Sakurai, the creator of the Kirby and the Super Smash Bros. series, was the game director, being heavily involved in its production. The game also uses the Havok game engine, a trait shared by various other non-Nintendo games, making it the first Super Smash Bros. game and the only Nintendo game to do so. Other companies have been involved in Super Smash Bros. Brawl's development, especially for its extensive soundtrack, including Camelot Co., Ltd., Namco Bandai Games Inc., and Monolith Software Inc.

Early in development, a damage system would have been implemented that would cause characters to shown signs of visible damage and strain during prolonged battles. Among those found included Meta Knight's mask that would develop large cracks, or Captain Falcon's helmet whose visor would crack to reveal a part of his face.

First, the player must choose Zelda/Sheik. The other player must use a lightning bolt to make them either shrink or grow. Once the player has changed size, they must use their Down+B special move to transform to Sheik/Zelda. The player can transform back to who they were before; this is optional. By doing this very simple glitch, Zelda/Sheik will stay at their size forever. However, this glitch will only keep working until Zelda/Sheik is affected by another size-changing item.
This glitch will work with any mode, any color, any size (Mini or Mega Brawl) and any rule. As long as items are turned on and lightning bolts are able to spawn.

First, the player must select the Bridge of Eldin stage. The player should also have a Final Smash prepared. King Bulbin will eventually come and destroy part of the bridge with a bomb. Soon after, a portal will restore that part of the bridge. When the matter begins to rebuild the bridge, the player has to use the Final Smash in midair in the gap. Jigglypuff will begin to inflate while the bridge is getting mended. When the bridge is completely fixed, Jigglypuff should bounce up onto the bridge and remain giant. Its attacks are completely the same, only that they have a much longer reach. Its movement seems to have slowed somewhat as well. It also becomes a very easy target and is simple to KO, as the slightest touch of the KO range will take it out. With this glitch activated, having Yoshi perform his Egg Lay attack will make Jigglypuff grow even bigger.

Smash Bros. DOJO!! is the game's official website, which provided constant public updates on the game for almost one year prior to its release. It was maintained by Masahiro Sakurai, who updated it one to three times every week day at 15:00 EDT. The website reported on new characters, items, stages, and game modes, and has official movies and music from the game. Its first post, which explains the basics of Super Smash Bros. games, was published on May 22, 2007.

Super Smash Bros. Brawl received critical acclaim from most publications; receiving praise for its amount of play modes and its extensive soundtrack. Many songs in the game would be reused in future Super Smash Bros. installments. As of March 31, 2020, the game sold 13.32 million units worldwide.