Table Tennis Plus is a Plus Event that appears in the Nintendo 3DS version of Mario & Sonic at the Rio 2016 Olympic Games. The objective of the event is to win the required number of points and games before the opponent. The playable characters in this event are Mario, Luigi, Ludwig, Sonic, Vector, Zazz and Mii, with Zazz being unlocked by beating him in the event on the second day of Sonic's story in the Road to Rio mode. A Toad and a Chao appear as referees in this event.

In this event, the player only plays one match against a single opponent, and is shown to have beaten another character to qualify to the final at the end of the match. To start the match, the player must press  once to toss the ball, and again to serve the shot. If the player hits the ball back with particularly good timing, they will serve a much faster ball, however if they miss the ball the opponent will gain a point. The service changes every two serves. Once the player has served the ball, the player can return it by pressing either  to perform a straight shot, which is a faster shot, or a backspin shot, which slows down when the ball bounces. If the player returns a shot with perfect timing, they will return a faster ball that is more difficult to return, whereas poor timing will cause them to return a slower shot that is easier to return. The player must move left and right to reach the ball by using either  or , which the can also use to slightly angle their next shot. The player scores points when the opponent misses the ball, with the amount they score related to the number shown in the last square the ball bounces off of on the table. The number increases by one every time a ball bounces on it, and resets to zero once the value has been scored. The points on the table carry over each point, but not between games. Over time, the player fills a Super Power-Up meter, which fills faster when performing badly timed shots, which allows them to use a Super Power-Up once the meter is full by pressing . When used, all balls are returned as fast smash shots with a unique effect for a limited time. The first character to reach or pass the required number of points each game wins, with the character who wins the most matches overall winning the whole event.
In this event, the player can set the number of game they play in each match to either one, three or five, and the number of points required for a win to either 21, 50 or 99.