The Tail Tree is a special tree which bears Super Leaves on its branches. Native to the Mushroom Kingdom, it is located in front of Peach's Castle during the events of Super Mario 3D Land, and is admired by the kingdom's inhabitants. It features a unique tail-shaped branch growing halfway up its trunk and two small round ear-like stubs visible when the tree's leaves are missing.
Before the official debut of the Tail Tree, the Nintendo Comics System comic It's Always Fair Weather states that Super Leaves grow on a plant known as "Magic Leaf Raccoonius".

Sometime before the events of Super Mario 3D Land, one night, a huge rainstorm blows all the Super Leaves off of the Tail Tree's branches (while Bowser laughs in the background).
Later on, Mario and three Toads (Red, Yellow, and Blue) go looking for the princess. Eventually, they discover that she is missing and that the Super Leaves are missing. Yellow Toad notices a hovering letter near the Tail Tree, and the group of four go to investigate. Mario grabs and opens the letter, and a picture of Bowser holding Princess Peach with Super Leaves flying in the background pops out. The message shocks the three Toads and Mario, and immediately, Mario and the three Toads run to save Princess Peach. Throughout his adventure, Mario receives more letters about Peach's predicament and learns that Bowser is utilizing the Super Leaves that he and the Koopa Troop took from the Tail Tree to strengthen his armies, even creating Tail Bowsers. After Bowser's eventual defeat, Mario and the three Toads save Princess Peach and, using their Tanooki powers, bring Peach back to her castle, where the Tail Tree has sprouted new Super Leaves.

The Tail Tree is located in the Mushroom Kingdom in Super Mario Odyssey. The tree has the "Pops Out of the Tail" Power Moon in its tail. It can be obtained by spinning Cappy on the tail. If Mario stands on the tail, he automatically sits down. The path beside the tree has also been turned into a stream.   After Peach invites the residents of other kingdoms to the Mushroom Kingdom, a Steam Gardener can be found near the tree. It is unsure if the Tail Tree's tail is an actual tail or a tree branch.

The Tail Tree makes a small cameo in in the background of Mario's Figure Skating Spectacular in Mario & Sonic at the Sochi 2014 Olympic Winter Games.