The Tale of the Spirit of Fright is the sixth chapter in Yoshi Topsy-Turvy and the final full chapter in the game. Before it begins, the Spirit of Fright asks Yoshi if he really wants to know more about him and says he must bring him 10 Happiness Medals to continue to the final chapter.

All four of the parts in this mission are autoscrolling areas with a large spinning spiked object on the left side of the screen. The first part contains two Ball and Chains along with a Mace Guy in the middle. The second part features some rolled-up carpets and hearts. The third part contains some multicolored sliding objects. The fourth and final part takes place on a snowy mountain and has a Mace Guy, a wall, and a set of spikes.

The first part of this mission contains a Raven, Goonie, and a few Gusties with a set of spikes on the bottom of the level. The second part has a Ball and Chain, a Basket, and a few Ravens. The third part takes place in a pink area with two boulders and some more Ravens. The fourth and final part takes place on a snowy mountain and has Yoshi climbing up a straight, slippery wall with a few Fly Guys carrying coins on the way.

All four of the parts in this mission are autoscrolling areas with a large spinning spiked object on the left side of the screen. The first part contains many Mace Guys that are stuck in walls but can still hit Yoshi. The second part features some Shy Guys and a few Fat Guys. The third part takes place on a snowy mountain and contains a few sets of spikes and a stationary green lift. The fourth and final part has Yoshi rolling a boulder over a bed of spikes with a parachuting apple and an Igashira-kun in the way.

The first part of this mission takes place in a very small area that only contains a single Basket, a few coins on the sides, and a bouncing checkpoint that can be moved by tilting the console. The second part features a few lifts that are attached to different chains and swing more erratically along with a few Igashira-kun. The third part contains two Small Lifts over a long bed of spikes with another Igashira-kun in the way. The fourth and final part has Yoshi transforming into Boat Yoshi and avoiding a few Igashira-kun floating on the water and some walls.

The first part of this mission features a few Ravens along with a single boulder. The second part has many multicolored sliding objects with a few more Ravens. The third part contains a single Ball and Chain with many more Ravens. The fourth and final part has Yoshi transforming into Ball Yoshi and breaking through multiple walls while trying to avoid some more Ravens.

All four of the parts in this mission are autoscrolling areas with a large spinning spiked object on the left side of the screen. The first part contains a boulder that must be rolled over a bed of spikes along with a few walls in the way of the boulder. The second part contains some erratically moving lifts along with a few parachuting items and a big heart. The third part has Yoshi climbing up a few walls. The fourth and final part features a few Small Lifts.

The first part of this mission takes place on a snowy mountain and contains two half-pipes along with some lifts of varying sizes and colors. The second part contains a few Small Lifts along with some parachuting apples, coins, and bombs. The third part is an upwards section containing some multicolored sliding objects along with some coins attached to balloons and some parachuting coins. The fourth and final part takes place on a snowy mountain and has Yoshi sliding under low ceilings along with some Boos and Big Boos.

The first part of this mission is an upwards section with some wall climbing and many Fly Guys carrying coins on the way. The second part features two cannons that shoot Yoshi into each other with a single Mace Guy in the middle and spikes on the bottom of the area. The third part has Yoshi transforming into Boat Yoshi again with some walls and floating platforms in the way as well as some Igashira-kun on the water. The fourth and final part contains a single Piranha Plant along with a few erratically moving lifts over a bed of spikes.

The first part of this mission is a very tight area with many rolling Igashira-kun. The second part is very short and contains purple terrain with two red apples along with the checkpoint being at the bottom of the area. The third part contains many small multicolored sliding objects over a bed of spikes along with a few Igashira-kun moving on rails and some parachuting apples. The fourth and final part contains a few Ball and Chains that Yoshi must jump on to collect all of the coins on the way.

All four of the parts in this mission are autoscrolling areas with a large spinning spiked object on the left side of the screen. The first part contains a few Small Lifts with some Mace Guys in the way. The second part has purple terrain and some rolled-up carpets. The third part contains some more stationary Small Lifts over beds of spikes and a few Mace Guys. The fourth and final part features a few multicolored sliding objects along with a few Daruma Otoshi-kun.

The first part of this mission takes place on a snowy mountain and contains many Ravens. The second part takes place on another snowy mountain and contains a few stationary green Small Lifts as well as a Mace Guy in the middle. The third part contains many Mace Guys along with a few Fly Guys carrying coins dropping by and some spikes. The fourth and final part contains a few rolling Igashira-kun and a single Daruma Otoshi-kun walking across the area.

All four of the parts in this mission are autoscrolling areas with a large spinning spiked object on the left side of the screen as well as an intense fiery background. The first part contains a few Ravens walking on the walls. The second part contains more Ravens and some erratically moving lifts. The third part looks like a snowy mountain and contains more Ravens as well as a big heart. The fourth and final part contains multiple walls that must be climbed with the same pattern and some Ravens.