The Tanooki Kart is a kart in the Mario Kart series. It is a jeep-based vehicle (resembling a Jeep Wrangler JK) named for and based upon Tanooki Mario, with the driver’s emblem located on the doors.

The Tanooki Kart is one of four additional vehicles included in the The Legend of Zelda × Mario Kart 8 downloadable content pack for Mario Kart 8. It is the signature kart of Tanooki Mario. Unlike most kart bodies, the Tanooki Kart doesn't get raised above the Monster, Hot Monster, and Cushion tires; a trait that it shares with the Tri-Speeder. It has the same engine sound as the Comet, which appears to be a low-pitched Wankel engine, but without the supercharger.
In terms of its stats, the Tanooki Kart is a less extreme version of the Steel Driver, Tri-Speeder, Badwagon, Standard ATV, and GLA, and its stats are shared with the Bone Rattler, which is available in the Animal Crossing × Mario Kart 8 DLC pack.
A CPU-controlled Tanooki Mario will occasionally use this kart body in a race, equipped with the Monster tires and Waddle Wing glider.
In Mario Kart 8 Deluxe, it is unlocked randomly by collecting coins. Also, its stat spread is different, boosting weight, ground handling, and traction, while the ground speed and acceleration stats are hindered. The Tanooki Kart shares its stats with the Koopa Clown and the Master Cycle Zero, and the three vehicle bodies possess the strongest traction boost in the game.

The Tanooki Kart returns alongside Tanooki Mario in Mario Kart Tour as part of the 2021 Autumn Tour, where it is classified as a High-End kart, and serves as his signature kart once again. It uses the Monster tires from Mario Kart 8 and Mario Kart 8 Deluxe, although an official screenshotMedia:MKT Koningsdag 2022.jpg shows it with the Pipe Frame's tires instead. The Tanooki Kart increases the duration of Slipstream boosts and the amount of points earned for performing a Slipstream.
A camouflage-patterned High-End variant of the Tanooki Kart called the Camo Tanooki Kart was added in the Animal Tour.
The Tanooki Kart has only appeared in certain pipes and is not currently a part of the Daily Selects set. The table below shows the kart's availability by tour.