The Great Tree is a giant tree in the game Paper Mario: The Thousand-Year Door. Its interior serves as the third main location in the game. It is located in Boggly Woods and is the home of the Puni tribe. When Mario first arrives here, the entrance is sealed by a strange, metal door, which prompts him to take Punio to see Flurrie; the door is a result of the X-Nauts residing in the tree. There is actually a secret entrance to the Great Tree's interior. Mario must use Flurrie to blow away the "paper" that covers this entrance, which Punio proceeds to enter, prompting him to open the sealed door that Mario can walk through. However, the secret entrance is anything but secret as it is labeled "Secret Entrance" and is surrounded by flashing lights.
The Emerald Star is located within the tree since 1,000 years ago after the Shadow Queen was imprisoned the Goomba hero gave the Crystal Star to the Punies to keep safe. As such, Lord Crump and his X-Naut troops invaded the place to find it, even if that meant teaming up with the Jabbies (the rivals of the Punies), and additionally, imprisoning the Punies. Punio enlisted the help of Mario, Goombella, Koops, and Flurrie to liberate the Punies, take down the Jabbies, retrieve the Emerald Star, and drive the X-Nauts out of the Tree. Mario also obtained the Super Boots while he and his friends were here. After Mario and his friends find the Emerald Star, Crump steals it and activates a five-minute (300-second) time bomb. With the system active, Crump makes his way to the entrance, but his escape is cut off by the Puni elder; with her help, Mario, Goombella, Koops, Flurrie and the other Punies are able to catch up with him, demanding that he surrenders the Crystal Star and leave the tree forever. However, instead of surrendering, Crump is forced to deactivate the time bomb and activate his robot, Magnus von Grapple, and attack Mario and company. After defeating the robot, Crump and the X-Nauts are driven out of the tree and Mario is given the Emerald Star as a reward. A shop is also found here.
The in-game map description reads, "A very large tree where the reclusive Punies live."

The tree is inhabited almost exclusively by Punis, Jabbis, and Piders, though it is temporarily invaded by the enemies listed above.

In addition, there is a shop covered by a piece of paper to the lower-left of the twisty path. Having Flurrie blow it away will allow Mario access to the shop.