Thoreau is the second Pixl the player encounters in Super Paper Mario after Tippi, the first Pixl partner to be unlocked, and one of the twelve original Pixls created by the Ancients. Thoreau resembles a hand, with his head as the palm and the five circles being the fingers. This indicates his ability to grab and throw most enemies (although some, such as the Cursya, cannot be picked up), an ability originating in Yume Kōjō: Doki Doki Panic. 
Thoreau can be used to pick up specific objects to aid with puzzles (e.g. a block that must be thrown to exit a room), grab items and activate switches from afar (like Kooper and Koops), and steal Shroom Shakes from Mr. L and Shadoo as they are about to use them in battle.  The player can use Thoreau to throw enemies into each other, which pierces Defense (similar to Yoshi's Gulp), making it a useful technique against enemies that take very little damage through normal means. Grabbing an enemy before it recovers from being thrown or picking up a defeated enemy will make it appear Dizzy, though in the latter case the enemy is properly defeated upon hitting the ground or an object.

Thoreau's name was revealed in the 214th issue of Nintendo Power, which also joked that he was once a part of a tacky wall paper design. According to Tippi, Thoreau "sounds posh and upper class, but he's not afraid to get his hands dirty." Thoreau's name is a play on the word "throw", and his statement that details bore him alludes to Henry David Thoreau's quote, "Simplify, simplify, simplify!"
Thoreau is rescued from a treasure chest in Yold Town during Chapter 1-2, and claims that the Ancients locked him away for 1,500 years. He is the only Pixl to break the fourth wall: he states that a "great being", the player, is listening and would wish to know to press  to use him.
Thoreau also appears in the Super Paper Mario story arc of volume 37 of Super Mario-kun. Here, he attempts to defend Tippi from Mario's yelling at her. He eventually rescues Mario from being defeated by O'Chunks.