Toadies (singular Toady or sometimes Toadie) are small Magikoopa relatives with propellers on their heads and are normally dressed in red, causing them to also somewhat resemble Fly Guys. The most prominent Toadies are a particular group of four that work for Kamek, though singular Toadies also appear. The word "toady" means "underling" (usually in the context of bullying or otherwise intimidating), and its use does not always refer to Toadies as a species, one such example being Fawful referring to himself as one in Mario & Luigi: Superstar Saga.

Toadies in general debut alongside Kamek's Toadies in Super Mario World 2: Yoshi's Island. While Kamek's Toadies kidnap and carry Baby Mario away if Yoshi allows the timer to go down when the baby is off his back, the singular versions, separately localized as Solo Toadies and Green Toadies, have slightly different appearances and behaviors. Solo Toadies have purple skin and wear a dark-pink cloak and pink shoes, and they swoop in and seize the baby immediately after he is dislodged from Yoshi. Green Toadies have pale skin and blue shoes, and attempt to grab Baby Mario while he is still riding Yoshi. Unlike Kamek's Toadies, Solo Toadies and Green Toadies do not fly off immediately but instead hover around with Baby Mario, making it difficult for Yoshi to get him back.

Toadies appear in Yoshi's New Island. Kamek's Toadies look and act the same as before. Solo Toadies also reappear, now depicted as having purple robes and ordinary-colored skin and lacking shoes, though Green Toadies are absent.

In Yoshi's Story, four red Toadies resembling Kamek's Toadies carry Yoshis off to Bowser's Castle if they are defeated. However, if the player rescues a White Shy Guy in one of the levels and completes it, he will be able to save one captured Yoshi, essentially making him the equivalent of a 1-Up Mushroom. They also are seen in the ending, where they help out Baby Bowser after he is defeated by one of the newborn Yoshis by carrying him out of the castle in a similar manner to how they carry defeated Yoshis.

Toadies make a minor appearance in Mario Kart: Super Circuit in the course Sunset Wilds, where their likenesses are carved on two totem poles featuring it on the bottom, a Snifit in the middle, and a Shy Guy on the top. In the Mario Kart Tour iteration of the course, the totem poles are replaced by more cacti.

The orb item depicting a Toady in Mario Party 5 is incorrectly labeled as "Magikoopa Capsule". When a player uses this capsule, the player will swap their capsules with another player's capsules. The player chosen is determined by a roulette.

The orb from Mario Party 5 reappears in Mario Party 6, now correctly named the "Toady Orb". Using it places a trap on the board that steals an orb from any player who lands on it, giving the orb to the player who set the trap.

In Mario Party Advance, one of the missions includes Mario, Luigi, Peach or Yoshi helping a group of Toadies named the Kamek Krew find a stage for them to perform at. They live on the second floor of the Mushroom Condo, where they go through their routine between performances. They are spoken with through their leader, himself just called Toady. He constantly speaks in rhyme, with every line being said as if he was rapping. Toady asks the player for help when the group is in need of a gig, which leads into the Kamek Krew Live! quest. In the quest, Toady explains that the group is in need of a venue for their next show, but they have been unsuccessful in finding one. He asks the player to find a venue for them, pointing them in the direction of the desert area in the hopes of finding a "stadium". After Toady is visited again once the Mushroom Stadium is secured as a venue, he thanks the player for their hard work, rewarding them with the Bull's-eye Gaddget. According to the end credits, Toady's gig at the Stadium was a huge success.
Toady is also mentioned in the description for the minigame Broom Zoom, although in an inversion to their appearance in Mario Party 5, their name is seemingly used in reference to standard Magikoopas.

In Mario Party 7, the Toady Orb returns from Mario Party 6, serving the same function. However, if it is a red or yellow orb, the Toady will set it on a random space on the space owner's behalf, but if the orb is green or blue, the Toady will keep the orb for itself.

In Mario Party 8, Toadies run the Candy Shops in Bowser's Warped Orbit, one of the Toadies drives Bowser's convertible which appears when someone lands on a Bowser Space in Koopa's Tycoon Town, and two of them hold the 7,000 points sign in Test for the Best.

Many Toadies appear in Mario Party: Island Tour in the Kamek's Carpet Ride board. They can be seen bustling about the library area. They also assist Kamek in moving characters forward or backward a number of spaces when he uses Kamek Time.

In Super Mario Party, Toadies (now called Magikoopas in the British English version of the game) appear during tutorials holding a scroll which shows images related to the tutorial. They also appear in Kamek's Tantalizing Tower, where they carry players who land on Event Spaces to a different space, and host an item shop. However, the item shop run by Toady in Kamek's Tantalizing Tower forces the player to buy an item, which is limited to the choices of a Dash Mushroom, Poison Mushroom, or Custom Dice Block. In Challenge Road, if the player fails to complete a minigame challenge three times in a row, a Toady will fly down and offer the player a chance to skip the challenge. In this game, they all wear brown shoes instead of being barefoot and have fingered-clawed hands much like Kamek. When speaking to Bowser and Bowser Jr. they have special dialogue for them. Instead of calling them by their normal names, a Toady from the Shady Shop in Kamek's Tantalizing Tower will add "Lord" to the name.

In Super Mario Party Jamboree, a Toady (again referred to as a Magikoopa in the British English version) is transformed into Impostor Bowser by Kamek at the start of the game. Toadies are also seen carrying a cage containing a Chain Chomp in the introduction to the Showdown minigame Jr.'s Jauntlet.

In Yoshi Touch & Go, green Toadies appear in the primary gameplay, where they make a beeline for Baby Mario or Yoshi to attack. In Time Attack mode, an enormous group of purple Toadies that can each absorb one hit guard Kamek's Toadies, who are twice as strong.

Toadies appear as a spirit in Super Smash Bros. Ultimate, using artwork of Kamek's Toadies.