The Toad Brigade is a group of six adventurous Toads that aid Mario through some games, starting with Super Mario Galaxy. With Captain Toad as the leader, the Toad Brigade originally consisted of Hint Toad, Banktoad, Yellow Toad and Mailtoad. From Captain Toad: Treasure Tracker onwards, Toadette is seen as a part of the group, bringing the official membership up to six.

Enjoying the festivities in Peach's Castle during the Star Festival, a Toad and his friends are scattered across the galaxy after Bowser carries Peach's castle into outer space. They eventually escaped, along with Luigi, until they are separated from him and are later discovered by Mario in the Honeyhive Galaxy, where he rescues them.
Shortly afterwards, the Toads join Mario at the Comet Observatory, where they decide to help him in his quest to gather the Grand Stars, and move their base of operations to the Garage. After the Lumas help them build a spaceship, the Starshroom, the Toads form the Toad Brigade and start traveling in order to find Power Stars with Mario. They are then seen throughout several galaxies in search for the stars, and often cheer Mario on during battles. They often arrive to provide a Launch Star to Mario on their ship in order to help him progress.
The five members of the Toad Brigade each have special attributes: the leader is the Toad Brigade Captain who, despite trying to come off as brave is always fleeing at the first sight of trouble, making up ridiculous excuses along the way. This is first proven at the Space Junk Galaxy, as he mutters that he is afraid to board the airships. He can be seen as rather lazy. He always has a miners light on his head and a backpack on his back. The blue Toad wears glasses and often gives Mario advice in levels. Yellow Toad is very lazy and happy-go-lucky, and is either sleeping, much to the annoyance of a yellow Luma, or spinning around in circles. The green Toad carries a pickaxe and often sings songs while digging with it. The purple Toad is the Mailtoad. He will give Mario letters from Peach or Luigi when received. He also enjoys snorkeling, and can often be found underwater or with a snorkel mask.
In the Grand Finale Galaxy, where they show up for the final time, their leader reveals that because of their work in helping Mario retrieve the stars, they have been promoted to Royal Guards.

The Toad Brigade reappears in Super Mario Galaxy 2. Like in the previous game, they continue to aid Mario throughout the different worlds.
The Toad Brigade is introduced in an alternate manner than in Super Mario Galaxy. Firstly, the Toad Brigade Captain has the other Toads refer to him as "the new captain," and, when he is first met, he reveals he is actually just a Toad who instated himself as captain simply by wearing a headlamp. Additionally, the Brigade does not seem to know as much about the Lumas as they did before. The Starshroom used in Super Mario Galaxy 2 is stated by brigade members to have been built by Lumas for them so they can return to follow Mario to help him on his quest. Additionally, some have different roles in comparison to the original game. For example, the green Toad now is a Banktoad and not an adventurer as he was in the previous game. Additionally, Mario can give Banktoad some of his Star Bits.
Throughout the game, the Toad Brigade follows the Starship Mario using their Starshroom. Mario can go onto their Starshroom by using a teleportation pad on the Starship Mario in order to speak with them. There is also a 1-Up Mushroom each time Mario teleports to their ship. They sometimes assist him on his journey but generally they are just seen exploring the areas rather than looking for Power Stars. In the Bowser levels, the Toads are sometimes seen deep within the area, with the Toads often having a coin for Mario to collect. In the ending credits, the Toads are seen celebrating as Mario finally gets the cake that he had earned from saving Princess Peach.

 
Captain Toad reappears in Super Mario 3D World. In this game, he is a playable character in his own puzzle levels called Captain Toad's Adventures where the player can not jump and must collect five Green Stars. He also appears in several other levels, and awards Mario and the other characters with a Green Star when found. He is the only Toad Brigade member in the game; while yellow, green and purple Toads similar to his crew can be seen with Captain Toad in a Clear Pipe back to the Mushroom Kingdom during the credits, they only act as hosts of the Toad Houses.
Captain Toad and his levels return in the game's Nintendo Switch port, and Hint Toad, Banktoad, and Yellow Toad are also playable in these levels if there is more than one player playing. They, alongside Toadette, also appear in the Bowser's Fury campaign, though only after the main story is completed. Near Fur Step Island, Toadette can be seen and asks Mario and Bowser Jr. to find the other members of the brigade.

The Toad Brigade appears once again in Super Mario Odyssey. Mailtoad returns, unlike in Captain Toad: Treasure Tracker, as the employee of the regional coin side of certain Crazy Cap shops and appears in the Dark Side once the main mission is completed; likewise, Yellow Toad appears on the yellow coin side as well as in the Dark Side. Toadette is added to the group, known in-game as "Archivist Toadette." She rewards the player after they have completed achievements, which they can view by talking to her. The blue Toad is now known as Hint Toad, and will give Mario the locations of Power Moons for fifty coins. Banktoad also appears in the Lost Kingdom and Bowser's Kingdom. Captain Toad appears in most of the kingdoms, giving Mario a Power Moon if spoken to; unlike in the Super Mario Galaxy games, he is usually in a separate location than the rest of his crew. The Toad Brigade's theme also plays while talking to him.

Captain Toad stars in Captain Toad: Treasure Tracker as a playable main character along with Toadette, who joins the Brigade. All of the other members of the Toad Brigade (except for Mailtoad who is absent from this game) also appear in various stages to help the captain: Blue Toad gives him Super Gems or Super Mushrooms upon being found, Yellow Toad sleeps and can additionally cause Captain Toad or Toadette to fall asleep should they stand near him, and the Banktoad is seen reading a map in most of his appearances throughout the game. Each Toad wears an explorer outfit with a backpack to match Captain Toad's.

The three other Toad Brigade members also appear in the first set of levels in the bonus stages. In these stages, the goal is for Captain Toad to find the three Toads scattered around the stage and lead them to a platform that only lifts once four characters are standing on it to reach the Power Star. If any of the other Toad Brigade members are hit by an enemy, however, the player automatically loses a life rather than the Toad turning into a small form akin to Captain Toad and Toadette. The Toad Brigade members also make cameos in the beginning of the Challenge levels, the ending of the Mummy-Me levels and in the credits.

Captain Toad appears in Super Smash Bros. Ultimate, functioning as a background element in New Donk City Hall. Captain Toad can be seen standing on top of a building, in addition to sometimes appearing in the Odyssey. Captain Toad also appears as the enhanced form of Toad's spirit.
Toadette also appears, donning her explorer's outfit. She is a master spirit, leading expeditions in the temple area. Toadette's expeditions take 2 hours to complete; thus, players have to check her expeditions the most frequently.
Captain Toad, Hint Toad and Yellow Toad cameo on the Starship Mario spirit's artwork.

Captain Toad and Toadette in her explorer outfit (referred to in-game as Toadette (Explorer)) appear as drivers in Mario Kart Tour starting in the 2020 Exploration Tour. Their special skills are the Hammer and Double Bob-ombs, respectively.