Toad is one of the major characters of the Super Mario franchise. He is Princess Peach's attendant, a friend of Mario and Luigi, and a longtime protector of the Mushroom Kingdom. Toad usually has the role of being the representative of his species in spinoff games; in other words, Toad is actually a singular character among an entire species of look-alikes that share his name (much like Yoshi and the Yoshi species), leading to confusion over some of his appearances. What usually sets him apart from from other Toads are his mismatched spots and vest, and his role as Princess Peach's steward. While often retroactively believed to be one of the Toads in the original Super Mario Bros., the individual character Toad did not debut until Super Mario Bros. 2.

Despite being introduced as a playable in his first appearance, Super Mario Bros. 2, Toad has mostly been a supporting character. He is playable in some of the spinoff games, where he is commonly paired with Toadette since her debut in Mario Kart: Double Dash!!.
Toad has rarely been the main character of a game, with the exceptions being Wario's Woods and Kinopio Live, but not including Captain Toad: Treasure Tracker, which stars a different Toad. Despite similarities with Captain Toad, they are generally not treated as being the same character, with few exceptions such as Super Smash Bros. Ultimate, where Toad's spirit can be enhanced to Captain Toad.

Toad has the same look as the rest of his species. He normally wears a blue vest, brown shoes, and a large diaper-like piece of clothing for pants. His appearance often depicts him as looking like a small human child with his miniature size and recognizable human-like features. In the games starting from Mario Party 4, Toad's vest is given an added gold lining. He has a red-spotted mushroom cap, which has been the subject of some ambiguity and inconsistency as to whether or not it is in fact a hat. In Mario Party: The Top 100, Toad claims that he has a hat ("You've come so far...I'd tip my hat to you, but neither of us wants to see that."), and in the cartoon series The Super Mario Bros. Super Show! and The Adventures of Super Mario Bros. 3, Toad removes his bulb as a cap on occasion. Also, Toad is stated to have a hat in Monster Mix-Up. However, an interview with Super Mario Odyssey producer Yoshiaki Koizumi contradicted this; it was stated that the mushroom bulb is a part of Toad's head and not a cap. This is supported by Mario Kart Tour, where Toad's default costume will not count towards challenges requiring drivers wearing a hat, and Super Mario Bros. Wonder, where it is stated that the mushroom caps of Toads as a whole are their heads and not hats. 

Like most of the characters in the series, Toad has changed very little appearance-wise throughout the years since his debut in Super Mario Bros. The only recognizable differences in his current look consists of his physical appearance which included some defining factors in the recent years (such as redesigned eyes and a gold outline that was recently added to his traditional vest), and the corrected number of spots on his mushroom cap (the number of spots on his cap was inconsistent in the older Super Mario games). The addition of the red polka dot on the top of his head is first seen in the game Luigi's Mansion where even Luigi acknowledges the top spot and called it lovely if he is to take a picture of Toad with the Game Boy Horror.

In other aspects, Toad is very small in size (a trait shared within his species). In relation to his body size, he also has small, thin arms and no legs (with just his feet). He also has a large head that is mostly dominated by the red-spotted mushroom cap on his head. Overall, Toad's head appears to have a strong resemblance to various mushrooms (most notably the Super Mushroom). While having the look of a child in his current appearance (as most of the members of his species do), it can be arguable that his earlier appearances (especially in his game appearances during the Nintendo 64 era) portray him as looking much more childish in design with his very large head and miniature body (more so than his current appearance). Surprisingly, a piece of artwork of Toad for the game Mario Party has Toad's legs showing. Toads have never been portrayed with their legs showing in-game artwork before or after Mario Party. In the graphics for Super Mario Bros. 3 and Excitebike: Bun Bun Mario Battle Stadium, Toad appears to have short legs, unlike his other appearances.
A small controversy arose with Super Mario Bros. 2, because Toad is given a blue mushroom cap instead of a red one. However, Toad's blue mushroom cap is actually due to the graphical limitations of the Family Computer and Nintendo Entertainment System rather than a continuity thread. In remakes of Super Mario Bros. 2, such as Super Mario All-Stars, Toad is given a red mushroom cap. This controversy arose again in Super Mario 3D World and Super Mario Maker 2, where Toad is once again depicted with blue spots on his mushroom cap. However, this appears to be a trend with a homage to Toad's sprite depiction in the original Super Mario Bros. 2. 
Toad's appearance in the Super Smash Bros. series has evolved. In Super Smash Bros. Melee, Toad had a slightly darker skin tone, as well as an overall stubbier appearance, reflecting his then-recent appearances in Mario Kart 64 and Mario Party 3. In Super Smash Bros. Brawl, Toad's model was updated to match his current appearance since games like Mario Party 4, though with a monotone color scheme, as well as realistic details in his clothing and shoes. In Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS / Wii U, his model was updated yet again, with a more vibrant and cartoonish color scheme, as well as much less detailing. In Super Smash Bros. Ultimate, Toad receives simple detailing in his clothing and shoes, as well as a subdued color scheme, albeit not to the same extent as Super Smash Bros. Brawl.

Toad is generally seen to be in an attire consisting of a blue vest (or waistcoat), white pants, and large brown shoes. In some Super Mario games and as well as the early Super Mario cartoons, Toad is depicted to be wearing a red vest as opposed to his traditional blue vest. As a result, Toad's appearances with a red vest sometimes result in confusion among whether or not it is truly Toad himself who is making an appearance in these games or not. Even without his red vest, Toad's general appearance is often shared by many other Toads in the Mushroom Kingdom; thus, further causing confusion between his appearances. However, later Super Mario games such as Super Mario 3D Land have made attempts to differentiate Toad from the other Toads by making him the only Red Toad (Toads with red head spots) to be sporting a blue vest.
While he is commonly seen in his traditional clothing style consisting of his standard vest and pants throughout the series, Toad is sometimes seen to be sporting different wardrobes in various games. This change is first witnessed in some of the earlier spin-off titles as some of the Mario Sports games for the Nintendo 64 (such as the Mario Tennis and Mario Golf titles for the system) has Toad is seen wearing a blue shirt with a large gold button that may have served as his original sports outfit. Additionally, Mario's Tennis for the Virtual Boy depicts Toad in the same tennis wear as the other playable male characters. Regardless of his new looks, Toad's clothing style for the later Mario Sports game have him wearing his usual default clothing from the general Super Mario games (his regular clothing including his vest) as opposed to owning a separate sports outfit. 

Toad has also been seen in different outfits and costumes throughout the various Super Mario games; however, it is the Mario Party series that has given Toad his most different and customized appearances. In Mario Party 2, Toad (along with the other main characters) often dressed up in different costumes in respect to the boards that the characters were playing on (such as a wizard in Horror Land or a live boat in Pirate Land). In Mario Party 4, Toad is depicted to wearing a fancy white and black striped suit with a rather shiny red bow tie in regards to his status as one of the main hosts in the game (in the ending credits of the game, Toad reveals that he and the other hosts had received their new clothes through the appearance of the Party Cube).
In the Super Mario games, the general appearance of a Toad is often changed drastically depending on the Power-Ups they use (as especially seen in New Super Mario Bros. Wii). This is no different for Toad himself as games like Super Mario 3D Land portrayed him in his very own Tanooki suit (with a red scarf) whenever he has gained the power from a Super Leaf (thus, becoming Tanooki Toad). His alternate forms from The Super Mario Bros. Super Show also portray him in different clothing styles such as his Super Toad form (which portrays him with a reversed color pattern of a red mushroom cap and white spots) and the Toad Warrior (which depicts him in a typical biker outfit). In The Adventures of Super Mario Bros. 3, Toad is sometimes seen wearing yellow oversized sunglasses when it is hot outside. In the episodes Reign Storm and 7 Continents for 7 Koopas, Toad is seen shirtless wearing green swimming trunks, yellow sunglasses, and purple shoes. The Mini Toad toy from the Mario vs. Donkey Kong games also stays true to Toad's original Fire Toad form by having a reversed colored mushroom cap whenever it becomes a Fire Mini Toad. 
Super Mario 3D World not only altered Toad's overall appearance with his blue-spotted mushroom cap, but his Fire Toad form has also changed to become very similar in appearance to Fire Yellow Toad from the New Super Mario Bros. games with an orange mushroom cap and red spots while Toad sports a red vest.
In Mario Kart Tour, aside from his default appearance, Toad also has a Party Time outfit which was similar, only with the addition of sleeves to his vest, wearing a red and white striped coned party cap, a red bow tie, and a party mask bearing the likeness of Mario's moustache. Another outfit, called Pit Crew, has him wearing a blue bodysuit as well as a blue helmet.

Toad is often portrayed as cheerful almost to the point of childishness; his official artworks often show him with a wide smile on his face. He is also excitable and prone to panic and is often shown running around frantically. Toad is also sometimes seen as somewhat of a coward, although he seems to be actually aware of his own cowardice. Despite this, Toad still manages to be brave when the need truly calls for it, and often helps Mario on his multiple adventures. In some images of the Mario Kart series and various media of the Super Mario franchise (such as the comic series), Toad has also been portrayed as accident-prone or simply unlucky. In Mario & Sonic at the Olympic Games Tokyo 2020, Toad mentions having a fear of heights.

While Toad does occasionally get upset and has been described as an impatient character, he is often kind and polite, generally rooting for the well being for just about anyone who he calls his friend. This is sometimes contrasted by some instances such as his appearance in Super Mario RPG: Legend of the Seven Stars, where Toad shows something of a sarcastic streak.
In some Super Mario media where another character acts as Princess Peach's caretaker (such as Wooster in the Nintendo Comic System), Toad has a more active role in the story; in these cases, he is depicted as being rather naïve and a bit on the selfish side. However, he is also quite rash, which often leads him into trouble and forces him to adjust his attitude and fix the problems he unintentionally causes. In the Valiant Comics series, Toad is dedicated to his work as a mushroom retainer, drinking coffee from a cup that reads "World's Greatest Mushroom Retainer".
In The Super Mario Bros. Movie, Toad's personality receives an overhaul: he is energetic, impulsive, adventurous, and boisterous. He is notably more braver than the other Toads, as he strives to go on his first real adventure, and tags along with Mario (who he claims is his best friend despite only knowing him for a short amount of time) and Peach for that reason. Despite this braveness, it can cross over to foolishness and he tends to be insensitive. During the tour of the Mushroom Kingdom, he hysterically warns the other Toad to move out of the way since "[Luigi] is going to die imminently", only to reassure Mario that he will be fine after he reacted in irritation over what he just said. Mario also tends to be annoyed by his antics, like the aforementioned moment, when he scares him the first time they meet and when he hits him in the arm with his stick to make him realize that he isn't dreaming after ending up in the Mushroom Kingdom. Additionally, as the trio embark on a wild kart ride through the Jungle Kingdom, Toad is shown to be whooping and cheering with excitement, even while nearly being flung out of the kart several times, while Mario and Peach are screaming in terror. Despite this, he is fiercely loyal to Peach, as she brings him along because he vows to protect her and that he fears nothing. Additionally, when Peach orders the Toads to evacuate the Mushroom Kingdom and asks Toad to do the same, he simply reiterates his promise to protect her, to which Peach smiles with understanding and allows him to follow her to face Bowser.

Toad's voice has gone through many changes throughout the franchise's history. In The Super Mario Bros. Super Show! and The Adventures of Super Mario Bros. 3, Toad speaks with a shrill, raspy voice and a thick Brooklyn accent. In the Super Nintendo Entertainment System version of Wario's Woods, Toad has a voice similar to that of a young adolescent. In the first three Mario Party installments and the Japanese release of Mario Kart 64, Toad's voice is higher-pitched and more childlike. In the English release of Mario Kart 64, he sounds like a small child, often screaming in a high voice or cheering in his speech. From Super Mario Advance onward (as a result of Jen Taylor being introduced as his new voice actress), his voice is slightly deeper and regains the rasp heard in the DIC Entertainment cartoons.
In the games department, Toad's voice was originally portrayed by Tomoko Maruno for the Japanese version of Mario Kart 64 (and later the first three Mario Party titles) and Isaac Marshall for the overseas version. Eventually, Jen Taylor, and then Kelsey Hutchison, played Toad's voice for many installments. His current voice actor is Samantha Kelly, who also currently voices Princess Peach and Toadette. In tandem with his cheerful personality, Toad is often heard yelling, "Yahoo!", "Woohoo!", or "Yeah!" In Mario Kart 64, Toad prominently says, "I'm the best!" which became a recurring quote of his, similar to Mario's "It's-a me!"

In Super Mario Bros. 2, despite his diminutive size, Toad is stronger than the Mario Bros., pulling Vegetables and Coins out of the ground faster than any other character. Toad is also a very fast character, having the highest speed of the group as well. These strengths were again seen in Super Mario 3D World. This is further influenced in the Mario Kart series, where he is a lightweight character and very often an extremely fast one. However, both Super Mario Bros. 2 and Super Mario 3D World also acknowledges the fact that Toad has very weak jumps. In spite of his limited jumping power, Toad is capable of performing the Power Squat Jump ability in Super Mario Bros. 2 to surpass this limitation. Wario's Woods gives him the unique ability to walk up walls, but this ability has not been seen since. Toad uses a Hammer in Mario Party 3, but this too has not been seen recently. 
His appearance in Super Smash Bros. Melee as a shield for Princess Peach further hints at the fact that he has good endurance. In the Super Princess Peach minigame Toad Jump, it is revealed that Toad can perform a kind of Flutter Jump to increase his jumps simply by flapping his arms around wildly after jumping (though the length of how long he can keep this jump depends on how much the player blows into the mic). Toad also has access to Mario's power-ups and is skilled at riding Yoshis. He is generally considered an expert on items, often giving Mario power-ups and telling him what he needs to do. Toad has also been shown to be able to perform a spin jump as seen in games such as Mario Sports Mix.
Toad has a unique ability to emit spores, though this is not commonly shown. This ability is given a preview in the earlier games when he is hit by a powerful force as seen in Mario Tennis for the Nintendo 64 and the Super Smash Bros. series (though it is the latter game series that he is shown to be able to use this technique as an offensive attack). Mario Sports Mix further explores Toad's hidden talent by allowing him to use spores to cause mushrooms to sprout from the ground. Toad is capable of using this move as a recovery move. Toad is also able to create a shield of spores as a deflective move. Additionally, Toad's special move in this game involves him emitting many spores to cause gargantuan mushrooms to grow from the ground. These large mushrooms are then able to move in a rotational pattern, and are able to knock out any opponent who attempts to get closer to the mushrooms. Toad completes his attack by throwing a shot full of fungi material at his goal.
In Super Mario 3D Land, Toad is seen to be able to use a variety of the Power-Ups in the game that Mario can also use. In one instance in World 5-5, Toad demonstrates to the player how to use the Propeller Block by simply jumping off a platform with the block from high above and slowly descending below to the Goal Pole (when seen through the binoculars). In some of the later worlds and levels, Toad is seen to have used the powers of the Super Leaf and gained access to becoming Tanooki Toad within the Red Toad Houses. In some of his appearances through the use of the binoculars in the earlier levels, Toad is also seen to be able to make jumps rivaling those of Mario as he scampers through the level to show Mario the goal point.
Toad is later seen to be able to use a variety of power-ups in Super Mario 3D World such as the Fire Flower and Super Bell, to gain forms such as Fire Toad and Cat Toad. 
Additionally, episodes of The Super Mario Bros. Super Show! and The Adventures of Super Mario Bros. 3 occasionally had Toad using Power-Ups such as in "The Fire of Hercufleas" where he uses a Fire Flower, and in "The Ugly Mermaid" where he spends the entire episode in a Frog Suit. He is even one of five characters (the other four being Mario, Luigi, Bowser, and Wario) who can turn into different, more powerful forms; he becomes Super Toad when touching a Fire Flower and the Toad Warrior when touching a Starman.

Often, Toad is made into a tutorial-type character or host, who introduces the player to the game (such as in Mario Golf: Toadstool Tour). Rarely, he plays the role of side-kick and is occasionally a full-fledged hero. He is also occasionally a "damsel-in-distress" (but never the main one). He is usually seen as a helper, giving items and performing various other duties, such as running Toad Houses in Super Mario Bros. 3. His role as a tutorial character and as Peach's caretaker seems to have recently been taken over by Toadsworth. However, this replacement has allowed Toad to take more active roles in the Super Mario games such as having him being the host of the Toad House areas. While he is often featured as a playable character within the various Super Mario spin-off titles, he sometimes plays the role of the referee within some titles.

Toad is Princess Peach's obedient servant. While he is not as doting as Toadsworth, he cares for her deeply and would do anything for her. When teamed up, the two are even called "Royal Family" in Mario Party 5 and Mario Party 6 and "Loyal Friends" in Mario Party 8. In the Super Mario Bros. Super Show! episode "The Bird! The Bird!," Peach claims that Toad has protected her "over a hundred times" from Bowser's army before the Mario Bros. arrived in the Mushroom Kingdom, and actively helps in saving him from a misguided Birdo. However, Toad is not nearly as valiant in the games: his fear of Bowser is much more pronounced than in the cartoons, and he often ends up kidnapped just the same as Peach or is simply reduced to running to the Mario Bros. for help. The Super Smash Bros. series (up until Ultimate) has depicted Toad as very reluctant and unwilling to be used as a counter by Peach as part of one of her special attacks. Although Toad is simply friends with Peach and generally exhibits no romantic affection towards her in most Super Mario media, his appearance in a virtual magazine for the Satellaview depicts Toad having romantic and sexual relationships with Peach.

Toad is good friends with Mario and Luigi. He respects their bravery and heroism, although some games reveal that he doesn't look up to Luigi as much as Mario, and in Super Mario 64 DS, Toad even mistakes Luigi for his brother at first, and later belittles him for losing his cap. In most games, however, Toad is nothing but loyal to both Mario Bros., often aiding them in their journeys and even fighting alongside them in Super Mario Bros. 2. In the cartoons and most of the comics, Toad acts as a sidekick and constant companion for the brothers during their heroic adventures. In the aforementioned Satellaview magazine, however, Toad crosses a line with Mario by engaging in perverse activity with his friend's love interest.
Like the Mario brothers, Toad values Yoshi as a hero and friend, trusting him to collect Power Stars in Super Mario 64 DS, and teaming up to help rescue Luigi from the Koopalings in Super Mario Adventures. While he is not as close to Princess Daisy as he is to Peach, Toad has still shown himself to be a true friend to her as well, such as jumping to her defense when she is turned into a statue in Mario Super Sluggers.

In Mario Kart: Double Dash!!, Toadette is introduced as Toad's partner and continues to fill that role in many subsequent releases. The two get along and care about each other, though the exact nature of their relationship is disputed, with guide books for Mario Kart Wii and Mario Kart 8 referring to them as siblings, while most other sources suggest that they are merely good friends.
Like Bowser, Toad is shown to be afraid of Wario and holds him in contempt. The two had a direct confrontation in Wario's Woods and share bad chemistry in the baseball games. In Super Mario 64 DS, Toad expresses doubts about Wario, believing that he would rather run away with the Power Stars than help the other protagonists, and despite being intimidated by Wario, brazenly insults him by saying his cap smells terrible and telling him to wash it more often. While Toad and Birdo were initially foes in Super Mario Bros. 2, she becomes one of his strongest allies in Wario's Woods, where she provides encouragement for him. The only Mario Party series team name they have shared is "Surprise Attackers".

Toad was left on his own at an early age, and managed to survive on the streets of many magic lands by his quick wit and fast feet. He met the princess when he was delivering pizzas and attempting to sell encyclopedias to the Mushroom Kingdom Palace. She was so impressed by his eagerness to improve himself, that she got him a job in the royal kitchen. And when King Koopa took over the Mushroom Kingdom, and the princess was cast on the streets, Toad repaid her kindness by serving as her guide, loyal servant, and diplomatic adviser. He's not too sure the Mario Bros. know what they're doing, and often launches his own counterplan, which sometimes saves their hides, and sometimes, doubles their jeopardy. Toad is street smart, very bright and totally resourceful. All in all, he's exactly the kind of Mushroom you'd want guarding your flank in a fireball fight, or facing a clutch of snapping Piranha Plants.

Toad has been voiced by the following people: