Toads, also known as the Mushroom People (singular: Mushroom person or mushroom person) or simply Mushrooms, are a peaceful race of mushroom-like, humanoid characters and the dominant species of the Mushroom Kingdom. Toads reside in many towns and cities throughout the entire kingdom and have a capital named after them called Toad Town. Most Toads are citizens of the Mushroom Kingdom, and many also work as loyal servants of the kingdom's ruler Princess Peach.
First appearing in Super Mario Bros., the Toads have continued to make appearances throughout the Super Mario franchise. Typically, they play the role as supporting characters who assist Mario and/or Luigi on their adventures. However, several Toads have also played starring roles on some titles, such as being playable heroes alongside Mario and Luigi in New Super Mario Bros. Wii and New Super Mario Bros. U. Captain Toad, who first appeared in Super Mario Galaxy, stars in Captain Toad: Treasure Tracker, initially released for Wii U in 2014 and later released for Nintendo Switch and Nintendo 3DS in 2018.
The most recognizable member of the species is the character known as Toad, who is typically depicted as Peach's loyal servant; regardless, Toad has also adventured directly alongside Mario on several adventures since his debut in Super Mario Bros. 2. The character continues to appear as a playable representative for the species in various spin-offs in addition to his own starring roles in 1994's Wario's Woods and 1995's Kinopio Live. Other Toads such as Toadette, Toadsworth, and the Toad Brigade organization also make prominent appearances throughout the series. Members of this species other than the aforementioned main Toad character may also be referred to as simply "Toad" without the use of an indefinite article, one such instance being found in a video by Nintendo of America, where this name is used to refer to the Oarsman in Paper Mario: The Origami King.

In Super Mario Bros., the Mushroom People (retroactively known as Toads) live peacefully in the Mushroom Kingdom until King Bowser and his minions, the Koopa, appear to take over the kingdom. Bowser casts a spell that turns the Mushroom People into inanimate objects, such as power boost bricks and horsetail plants. With Princess Toadstool being the only person who can reverse the effects of Bowser's spell, Bowser kidnaps her, prompting Mario and Luigi to arrive and stop Bowser.

The only Mushroom People left in their original forms are Princess Toadstool's seven remaining servants, also called the mushroom retainers or simply Retainers, who are found in the first seven of the game's eight castles. While the English instruction booklet claims that they are under Bowser's spell, the Japanese version correctly states that they were merely captured. Additionally, an official guide describes them as female maids, but is missing the part mentioning seven of them, implying that they are instead a single character. When rescued, the mushroom retainer informs Mario or Luigi that their princess is in another castle.
The mushroom retainers reprise their role in Super Mario Bros.: The Lost Levels and Super Mario Bros. Special. In Super Mario All-Stars, there are as many mushroom retainers in the castle as the castle's world number (one in World 1-4, two in World 2-4, etc.). In the Super Mario All-Stars version of Super Mario Bros.: The Lost Levels, Worlds A, B, and C have five, six, and seven of them respectively. In the ending cutscene of the original version of Super Mario Bros: The Lost Levels and Super Mario Bros. Special (and to a lesser extent, VS. Super Mario Bros. and All Night Nippon Super Mario Bros., the latter of which replaces all Toads with caricatures of various Japanese celebrities), all seven of the mushroom retainers Mario/Luigi rescued throughout the game can be seen circling Mario/Luigi and the princess, exclaiming "Thank you Mario/Luigi!" in the former. Despite Mario rescuing only three Toads while completing Worlds A-C in The Lost Levels, World D's ending, after rescuing Peach again, will still show seven Toads surrounding Mario/Luigi and Peach like with World 8's ending. Much like the case with Bowser's wristbands, due to the NES only having three colors per sprite, both Peach's and the Toads' eyes are actually depicted as transparent pixels colored black due to the black background used for castle levels, as demonstrated in the aforementioned ending cutscene showing the sky turning blue.

Super Mario Bros. 2 is the first game to feature a specific mushroom retainer as a playable character. This character is named Toad, and he continues to appear as a representative for the species in subsequent games of the Super Mario franchise. In Super Mario Bros. 2, Toad is known for his high strength and speed stats; however, his jumps are considerably lower in comparison to the other characters.

In Super Mario Bros. 3, Toad returns, he's first seen serving the kings of the Mushroom World. When Mario or Luigi enter a castle, Toad asks them to get the magic wand back from the Koopalings to transform the King back to his original form.
Toad Houses make their debut in this game, they are found on the map of most worlds (excluding Dark Land and the Warp Zone). They are houses that resemble heads of Toads that allow Mario and Luigi to get extra lives, coins, and items. The Toad Houses let Mario take the contents of one of three treasure boxes, containing a power-up. Toad also runs the Spade Panels and the N-Mark Spade Panels.
Toad is featured on the key art for the Japan-only green switch card for Super Mario Advance 4: Super Mario Bros. 3.

Many Toads are found inside the rooms of the Mushroom Castle in Super Mario 64. It is implied that these Toads are sealed behind the castle's walls so that they could not escape to seek out help. Upon Mario's arrival to the castle, the imprisoned Toads inform him about Bowser's takeover of the castle and give him various hints about the Power Stars. A number of Toads even manage to hold on to a few Power Stars and later give them to Mario. Two Toads are also seen (alongside Princess Peach) in the ending of the game after Mario defeats Bowser for the final time.
In the remake Super Mario 64 DS, the Toads presume the same role of providing tips while being sealed behind the castle walls; however, their messages are slightly altered for each of the playable characters that talk to them. Additionally, a Toad also tells Mario to find the various keys needed to unlock the drawers of Peach's dresser. Every time Mario brings a key to this Toad, a new minigame appears and becomes available to play in the Rec Room. Toads also make cameo appearances as background characters in the various minigames. Some are even dressed up as waiters in Luigi's minigames.
Their Super Mario 64 artwork is reused as a stamp in the Japan-only 1999 title, Mario Artist: Paint Studio for the Nintendo 64DD.

An entourage of Toads and Toadsworth accompany Mario and Peach to Isle Delfino in Super Mario Sunshine. They are usually found around Delfino Plaza, often worrying about Peach after her capture by Shadow Mario. The Toads offer Mario various hints, such as ground pounding crates to receive coins. The Toads also fix FLUDD at the end of the game.
In the ending credits, the five Toads can be seen enjoying themselves along with Mario, Peach (who is rescued by Mario) and Toadsworth.
Although Toads with spots and vests in colors other than red and blue, respectively, had appeared in various earlier spin-off titles, including the two Super Mario RPGs in existence at the time, this is the first time the Toads are seen coming in multiple colors in the main Super Mario series.

Toads make a minor appearance in New Super Mario Bros., appearing in the intro where they are seen panicking after the castle was attacked. In this game, Toadsworth takes the role of hosting the Toad Houses instead. Toads, however, make cameo appearances in the minigames available in this game, since most of them are the same minigames from Super Mario 64 DS. The Toads in the opening in fact use Toadsworth's model, but due to the screen size and resolution of the original Nintendo DS, this cannot be easily seen without outside-game tools. However, due to later systems with which the game can be played having larger screens, the brown caps can be noticed by sharp eyes when playing the game on those.

Many Toads can be seen celebrating the Star Festival in the introduction sequence of Super Mario Galaxy as well as the end of the game in Grand Finale Galaxy. However, during the beginning of the game, many Toads are trapped in Crystals at the time of Bowser's attack over Toad Town.
Five Toads resembling the Toads from Super Mario Sunshine appear as major supporting characters. They call themselves the Toad Brigade, and help Mario in his adventures across the universe, often using their ship, the Starshroom, to travel to various galaxies. The Toad Brigade consists of the following members: Captain Toad, the self-proclaimed captain); Banktoad, the digger; Blue Toad, an intelligent Toad who wears glasses; Mailtoad, a Toad who delivers helpful mail; and Yellow Toad, a Toad often found sleeping.
A species of Toad called Cosmic Toad was going to appear. They were distinguished from other Toads by the star-shaped spots on their caps.

Toads take on a much more prominent role in New Super Mario Bros.'s successor, New Super Mario Bros. Wii. Additionally, Yellow Toad and Blue Toad debut in New Super Mario Bros. Wii as playable characters in the multiplayer modes.
During the introduction cutscene, two Toads help Mario, Luigi, Yellow Toad, and Blue Toad by firing Propeller Mushrooms and Penguin Suits out of a cannon. In single-player mode, Toads also have to be saved in some levels, indicated by a bubble with a scared Toad in the middle. The player has to search for the Toads that are imprisoned inside the ? Blocks and carry them to the end of the level. If players save a Toad without him being damaged by an enemy, they are rewarded with 3 extra lives. If the Toad is damaged, players are given one extra life. Regardless of the situation, an extra Toad House opens up after players save a Toad. If playing multiplayer, the Toads do not appear in levels and instead appear inside a locked chest only within an Enemy Course. Players have to pop all the Toad balloons in the area to make the chest appear, while avoiding or defeating the enemies, which vary depending on the world. Mario is then be rewarded with three Super Mushrooms.
Toads also appear in the Toad Houses where they host minigames for the players to provide them with opportunities to win extra lives and power-ups. In Princess Peach's Castle, the player has the option to visit Toad and pay him Star Coins to watch secret hint videos.

Likewise in Super Mario Galaxy, the Toads can be seen celebrating the Star Festival while collecting Star Bits in Super Mario Galaxy 2 in the introduction. The Star Festival is then disrupted by a large Bowser, who has used the Grand Stars to make himself larger.
The Toad Brigade also makes a returning appearance in this game and like in the first game, they attempt to assist Mario. They reveal that they had escaped the Mushroom Kingdom via the Starshroom that the Lumas had made for them. The reason for this is that the five Toads had told the Lumas that they would try to stop Bowser and bring peace to the kingdom, though this job is eventually given to Mario once the Toads find him. Throughout the game, the five Toads help in a variety of different ways. Banktoad, a Green Toad member of the Toad Brigade, helps Mario save Star Bits.

In Super Mario 3D Land, Toads continue to help Mario on his journey on rescuing Princess Peach from Bowser and his forces. However, the Toads help Mario through a variety of different ways throughout the game.
In the beginning of the game after Peach is kidnapped, three Toads (red, blue and yellow) are seen to accompany Mario on his journey to check where Peach is. The yellow Toad then spots a letter, which was written by Bowser, illustrating the kidnapping of Peach. The three Toads then run ahead in front of Mario to attempt to save her.

In Bowser's Castle, the three Toads are found in front of the first cannon which leads Bowser's lair; the red Toad gives Mario a 1-Up Mushroom. In the ending of the game, the three Toads had managed to reach Bowser's lair and had obtained several Super Leaves to transform Mario and themselves into their Tanooki forms so they can fly Peach back to her castle.
After Special 8-Bowser is beaten, the three Toads, wearing Tanooki Suits, make a reappearance. A letter gets sent to them, where they discover that Peach had been kidnapped once again by Bowser. The three Toads then venture with Mario or Luigi in this mission.

Aside from the three Toads that accompany Mario on his journey, other Toads are also met. A few Toads are kidnapped by Tail Bowsers throughout the game. Mario can spot several Toads through the use of binoculars. If spotted, these Toads occasionally help him through a variety of ways, such as tossing a Star Medal or a power-up. Occasionally, the Toads lead Mario to secret passageways. Toads are also seen in the true final level, where they are seen cheering on for Mario or Luigi throughout, especially at the end. Toad is present with occasional appearances through running the Red Toad Houses. Toad also operates the cannons that grant Mario access to the Airship levels. Like his fellow Toads, Toad also makes occasional appearances in the levels, and he can be seen throwing power-ups or Star Medals to Mario when spotted through the binoculars. Unlike the other red Toads in this game, Toad is distinguished as being the only red Toad with a blue vest in this game.
Five Toads also appear in the optical illusion room that appears after the player waits for a period of time on the title screen.

Toad reprises his host as the owner of the Toad Houses in New Super Mario Bros. 2. He also operates the cannons that Mario or Luigi must use to reach the airship levels. Toads with other mushroom cap colors also appear in the final bonus levels.

Both Blue Toad and Yellow Toad return as primary protagonists and playable characters in the Wii U launch title New Super Mario Bros. U. Blue Toad and Yellow Toad can use new Power-Ups, such as the Super Acorn to turn them into Flying Squirrel Toads, and in addition wield the Baby Yoshis similar to the Mario Bros..
Toad also appears throughout the game in Toad Houses, at the end of the level when the player catches Nabbit, and past the end-of-level fortress to give Mario and co. a power-up if they complete a stage with the last two digits of the Time Limit being the same.
Blue Toad and Yellow Toad return in New Super Luigi U, reprising their roles. However, they are now able to jump higher and flutter in the air similar to Luigi. The non-playable Toads also return to play supporting roles akin to the previous title.

All five colored Toads appear in Super Mario 3D World and its Nintendo Switch port Super Mario 3D World + Bowser's Fury, with Toad (who is now colored blue as a tribute to his appearance in Super Mario Bros. 2) as a playable character once again boasting the highest speed of the playable characters. "Blue" Toad is also capable of using the many power-ups found in the Sprixie Kingdom such as the new Super Bell to become Cat Toad. Additionally, the red-spotted Captain Toad (making a reappearance from his debut in the Super Mario Galaxy games) returns in an updated look while also being playable in his own levels throughout the game.
Yellow, Green, and Purple Toads act as the hosts for Toad Houses. However, at the start of Champion's Road, another Red Toad can be seen with a red jacket that sets him apart from Captain Toad and his new explorer outfit. The Toads that are hosting the Toad Houses tend to change color between worlds, with Yellow Toads as the host in World 1 and World 2, while Green Toads are the host in World 3 and World 4 and Purple Toads in World 5, World 6, World Castle, and World Bowser. These Toads also appear alongside Captain Toad in the credits as Toad and the other three heroes travel through the clear pipes to reach back to the Mushroom Kingdom. The last appearance of the Toads is in Champion's Road where they support the player along with the rest of the cast throughout the level.

Toad returns in Super Mario Run as a playable character, once again with his high speed ability, this and Super Mario Bros. 2 (and all its re-releases) are the only instances Toad is playable in a Super Mario series game while retaining his red spots. In addition, he serves as a guide in the game and the shopkeeper in the Kingdom Builder mode. Toadette also joins the playable roster, making her debut in the Super Mario series. Her ability applies to the Toad Rally mode. During the final tally, she causes some Toads on the opponent's side to join the player's side. This reduces the multiplier applied to coins of the opponent while increasing the player's multiplier. Toadette is normally the judge of the Toad Rally mode, but when she is being played as Toad substitutes for her. 
Two other Toads have key menu features. They can be found standing on stumps on the screen with Peach's Castle. The top left corner of the play area has a Toad that opens the Notifications menu. The bottom right corner of the screen has a Toad wearing headphones, who can toggle a mode where the in-game music is muted while letting the player play other songs on their device over the game.
When Bowser destroys the Mushroom Kingdom in the game, all of the Toads except for Toad run away. Repopulating the kingdom with Toads is one of the goals of the game. Toads come in five colors: Red, Blue, Yellow, Green and Purple. The total number of Toads collected, as well as the number of Toads of specific colors, are used to progress in the game. These values are used to unlock new items in the Kingdom Builder mode, as well as gradually rebuild and level up Peach's Castle. Items with color variations in this game, such as Toad Houses, usually have a version for each of the five colors Toads have. Toads are seen across the Mushroom Kingdom, as well as alongside or on top of some of the buildings. Sometimes they are sleeping, or talking to each other, or running in circles around a building, or interacting with buildings in more specialized ways. When a Toad or a building they are near is tapped, the Toad pops into the air. Some Toads next to buildings hold a coin. Tapping them or the building adds coins to the player's total.

Toads are gained by playing the Toad Rally mode, in which players compete against "ghosts" of other players in one-minute runs through randomized courses, with the goal being to collect the most coins and impress the most Toads. During a match, the Toads cheering for the player appear on the bottom of their screen. After the match, the Toads appear on screen in a Toad Tally, a summary of the run. The player with the higher coin total wins, with every cheering Toad serving as a multiplier to the coins. 
A Toad comes to cheer if the player performs one of the following actions:

Being defeated causes all Toads on the screen to leave. While there’s no limit to the amount of Toads that can cheer for the player, only the first 30 Toads cheering for each of the two players are shown in the Toad Tally. After the winner is determined, the Toads cheering for the loser move over to the winning side. If the player won, this means all of the opponent's Toads join them and every Toad goes your kingdom via a red pipe. If the opponent won, some of the cheering Toads leave the player, which also counts against the Toads in your kingdom.
The colors of Toads that cheer for the player in Toad Rally depends on the environment. Red Toads are in the crowd for any course, but the other colors are more limited in their appearance. All Toad colors can appear in an Airship course.

(Note that this means players who have not purchased the game cannot obtain Yellow or Purple Toads, as none of the courses accessible to such a player are Airships, Deserts, or Ghost Houses.)
Additionally, certain characters can change the mechanics of Toads. Yoshis are popular with Toads of the same color, and thus are more likely to cheer for that Yoshi. This also allows for Toads of colors that normally do not cheer on that kind of course to appear. As stated before, if the player plays as Toadette, the player is able to attract Toads more easily and in the result screen some of the opponent's Toads switch to the player's side.
The player's level determines the maximum number of Toads their kingdom can have at once. If this limit is exceeded, some older Toads move out.
In Remix 10, four Toads spectate in the Bonus Game and Super Bonus Game, which occurs in a Toad House.

Toads reappear in Super Mario Odyssey, where they are mostly found in the Mushroom Kingdom, with some being in the Lost Kingdom and Moon Kingdom as well. In this game, they always wear hats on their caps. Often, these hats are based on what other characters in the game wear. One Toad in the Mushroom Kingdom says that Peach brought hats as souvenirs from the Moon. The Toad Brigade also appears, and includes Captain Toad, Archivist Toadette, and Hint Toad. There is also a Toad called Jammin' Toad, who is seen wearing headphones and listening to music. A Toad with an red beret runs the Picture Match game in both the Cloud Kingdom and the Mushroom Kingdom.
Like many of the supporting characters, Toads will cower and refuse to talk to Mario if an enemy gets too close to them, regardless of whether Mario has captured the enemy in question or not.
After completing the game, the Toads near and inside Peach's Castle are panicked when Peach and Tiara disappear one day. It turns out that they were just on a vacation across the world, and everyone calms down after they return.

In Super Mario Maker 2, Toad (once again with a blue cap) and Toadette reappear as playable characters; they also supervise the various other Toads who assist in rebuilding Peach's Castle in Story Mode as Taskmaster (with his usual red cap) and Chief, respectively. Red Toad is in charge of the Main Hall, Blue Toad the East Hall, Green Toad the West Hall, and Yellow Toad the sculptures next to the castle. Purple Toad offers Mario a job to dispose of a Piranha Creeper hiding inside a Pipe. Mario occasionally needs to save these Toads to continue building the castle.

In the animated film Super Mario Bros.: Peach-hime Kyūshutsu Dai Sakusen!, the mushroom citizens are peaceful inhabitants of the Mushroom Kingdom. They are first briefly mentioned by Luigi when he identifies Mario's Brooch as a mysical gem pass down in Toad legend that guides the holder to a land of treasure. Kinoko Sennin elaborates that they lived in peace until Bowser of the Turtle Tribe arrived and kidnapped Peach. Like in Super Mario Bros., they are said to have been transformed into various inanimate objects such as bricks and horsetails, except it is added that this is in retaliation for Peach rejecting Bowser's marriage proposal. Mario and Luigi later save a group of Mushroom People that were transformed into coins, and later still a lone Mushroom person (identified as "Toad 2" in the credits). To thank them, "Toad 1" and "Toad 2" (as they are credited) reward Mario with a mushroom and flower power-up, respectively.

In the film, all of the voices of the Mushroom People are feminine, and they generally use very polite language, the latter of which would generally carry over to subsequent Japanese depictions. "Toad 1" in particularly identifies herself as Princess Peach's maid. Most of these Toads are presented with pinkish/red mushroom caps and had a similar appearance to the later created character Toadette. In promotional artwork for the film, they are mostly depicted as large masculine nude characters with big noses.

In the retelling of the classic fairy tale story of Snow White and Seven Dwarves featuring Mario characters in Super Mario Shirayuki-hime, seven Toads play the roles of the seven dwarves. The seven featured Toads acted very much in a child-like manner; however, they are close to Princess Peach and sworn to protect her. Sometime later, the seven Toads decide to head out of the cabin and go exploring. After the Toads leave, Bowser (disguised as an old woman) arrives and causes Peach to fall asleep, which the seven Toads eventually discover. The Toads assume she died, and they place her in an outdoor coffin in order to preserve her beauty.
Mario arrives at the scene and finds the seven Toads crying around the presumed dead Peach. Mario uses a magic potion to break the spell Bowser has put on her, which in turn makes the Toads rejoice. Mario along with the Toads and the Princess then run off to Queen Bowser's castle. After Mario beats various Goombas, the Toads protect Peach while they watch Mario take on Bowser. The Toads then assist Mario to defeat an adversary, the Koopalings; soon after they are soon stopped when Bowser threatens to kill Peach by holding a knife to her neck.
Luigi then arrives to attack Queen Bowser. Bowser then drops Peach, who is saved by Mario and the seven Toads. After celebrating, Mario, Luigi, Peach, and the seven Toads can be seen walking out of Bowser's castle in a joyous manner and heading to another location.

In the The Super Mario Bros. Super Show!, Mushroom People played a minor role by being background characters throughout the show. The most prominent one was Toad himself who is featured as a main character. Many others do not appear the same as their game counterparts and often appear with humanistic characteristics and proportions. They reappear with a similar role in The Adventures of Super Mario Bros. 3. As with Toad's case, no members of the species appear in the Super Mario World series as a result of their absence in the Super Mario World game.

In the Nintendo Comics System, Mushroom People are redesigned without clothing to look more like Super Mushrooms with arms and shoes, although notable Mushrooms like Toad typically retain their game design. Most Mushrooms are loyal to the Mushroom King, but some are shown to serve King Koopa. The Mushrooms loyal to Koopa speak in slightly broken English, often using the least number of words possible to get their point across.
Mushrooms make a prominent appearance in the comic Mutiny on the Fungi, in which they make up the majority of Captain Koopa's crew on his airship. One Mushroom in particular, called Truffle Toes by Koopa, is a major character in the comic's plot. Captain Koopa also orders a group of Mushrooms to attack Mario with cannons when he tries to escape the ship. Mushrooms are later shown trying to assist the Mushroom King, who has been turned into a dog.
A single Mushroom makes a small appearance in Koopa's Health and Beauty Tips as the one that Koopa is offering his tips to. Mushrooms also make a brief appearance in Bowser Knows Best as palace guards for Mushroom Castle.

Wario's Woods for both the NES and the SNES is the first game to star a Toad as the main and central hero (specifically the character Toad himself). In this game, Toad has to defeat Wario and his minions from taking over the Mushroom Kingdom. This is also the first game where Toads are seen in more than one color scheme, as a Green Toad appears as the second player's character in the VS mode, alongside the main, red Toad character who is controlled by Player 1.

Aside from Toad who is featured as a playable character throughout all of the installments and Toadette in some installments, other Toads are sometimes seen as a part of the audience.

In Mario Kart Wii, many Toads can be seen cheering for the winners in the celebration ceremony. Toads are also a frequent sight in Toad's home course Toad's Factory.

Large balloons of various Toads (red, blue, and yellow-colored) can be seen as a form of decoration throughout the Mario Kart 7 course Toad Circuit.

In Mario Kart 8 and Mario Kart 8 Deluxe, Toads are common spectators in many courses; many Toads are also Pit Crew members whose outfits come in many different colors, such as red, blue, yellow, green, pink, and purple. The large Toad balloons are once again seen in the Toad Circuit course, added in the Booster Course Pass.

A blue Toad appears as a playable palette swap of Toad in Mario Kart Arcade GP DX. He is a featherweight character.

The large Toad balloons from Mario Kart 7 are seen again in Mario Kart Tour, as the Toad Circuit course returns.
Toad (Pit Crew) has several color variations, all of whom are classified as Super drivers. A variant in yellow uniform, aptly referred to as Yellow Toad (Pit Crew), was introduced in the Toad vs. Toadette Tour and has the Giant Banana as his special skill. A variant in light-blue uniform, Light-blue Toad (Pit Crew), was introduced in the Penguin Tour, and he has the Ice Flower special skill. A variant in red uniform, Red Toad (Pit Crew), debuted in the Battle Tour with the Fire Flower special skill. A variant in green uniform, Green Toad (Pit Crew), debuted in the 2023 New Year's Tour with the Triple Green Shells. A variant in pink uniform, Pink Toad (Pit Crew), debuted in the 2023 Space Tour with the Heart special skill. Finally, a variant in purple uniform, Purple Toad (Pit Crew), debuted in the 2023 Summer Tour with the Giga Bob-omb as his special skill. As evidenced in the game's localized versions, the color designation in the names of these drivers refers to the Toads themselves rather than just the uniforms they sport, indicating they are separate characters from the main Toad character; however, all of them use Toad's red-spotted emblem instead of an emblem that reflects their overall color.

In Super Mario RPG: Legend of the Seven Stars and the remake from 2023, Mushroom People live in various towns, such as Mushroom Kingdom, Rose Town and Seaside Town. Many Mushroom People are shopkeepers or inn owners. In Rose Town, Mario has to help the Mushroom People, who are paralyzed by Bowyer's Aeros. In Seaside Town, the inhabitants, including many Mushroom People, are imprisoned in a shed by Speardovich. A few Mushroom People also appear in remote areas such as Monstro Town and even inside Barrel Volcano. Many Mushroom People in this game have different patterns on their hats than normally found on them. The inhabitants of Rose Town have target shapes, Cinder Toad in Barrel Volcano has a flame pattern.
Super Mario RPG: Legend of the Seven Stars is the first game to clearly feature female Mushroom People, before Paper Mario introduced other females and Mario Kart: Double Dash!! featured the official debut of Toadette.

Toads also make recurring appearances throughout the Mario Party series. The most prominent Toad is Toad himself who initially serves as the main host for the first two Mario Party titles as well as the fourth installment. In the later titles, he is a playable character exclusive to Beach Volley Folly in Mario Party 4 and becomes fully playable starting from Mario Party 5, while his female counterpart Toadette makes her playable debut in Mario Party 6. Aside from the two playable Toads, other Toads play the roles as assistants that aid the playable characters throughout the game, as well as being NPCs in various minigames. Toads also serve as shop keepers in Toad's own board Toad's Midway Madness in Mario Party 4. In Mario Party Advance, several Toads appear in Shroom City, including Shroomlock, Mrs. Shroomlock, Mr. E, and Mushbert, Toad and Toadette appear as hosts of some of the game modes, and generic Toads appear on portraits in Splatterball (shooting them causes the player to permanently lose one of their ammo slots). Toadsworth makes an appearance in Mario Party 7 as the main host of the game though he does not make any later appearances in the Mario Party series. Members of the Toad species corresponding to the player's color (Red, Blue, Yellow, and Green) are the characters players start out in the Toad Scramble mode of Mario Party: Star Rush while Toad himself is playable in other modes. Also in Mario Party: Star Rush, Toads serve as customers in the minigame One-Stop Toad Shop. In Mario Party 10, a blue Toad appears as the host.

Toads appear prominently in Mario Party 9 as the hosts of the game's various modes. A yellow Toad hosts the Party and Solo Modes, operates the Museum, and also appears in story mode. Throughout the boards, he often assists the player by providing tips and as well as general controls for events such as minigames, and also announces the winners of the various modes and gives out various rewards to the players based on their scores. A blue Toad hosts Minigame Mode and relays instructions to the players in minigames. A blue Toad also makes an appearance in the minigame Toad and Go Seek. A green Toad announces the Almost There! event. Toad also appears as a playable character.

Like in Mario Party 9, a yellow Toad appears as the host of the boards in Mario Party: Island Tour, with the exception of Bowser's Peculiar Peak which is hosted by Bowser himself. A blue Toad exchanges collectibles for Mario Party Points and is the host of the Minigames and StreetPass Minigames modes. A green Toad appears in the Bowser's Tower mode as the player's partner. Toad also appears as a playable character.

Members of the Toad species typically appear as NPCs serving as spectators, line judges, camera operators, or referees on the court in their appearances in the Mario Tennis series. In Mario Tennis Open, several colored Toads run the options menu in this game, with Toad guiding players in the records, shop, and outfitter, while blue, yellow, green, and purple Toads handle other areas of the records. In Mario Tennis: Ultra Smash, a Toad always waves the second player's flag when playing in Doubles. Additionally, the Toad sitting on the chair wears a black outfit to distinguish himself from the playable Toad character in the game. In Mario Tennis Aces, a red and a blue Toad serve as commentators in the start and beginning of Adventure Mode, and a Toad follows the player making comments and remarks about what is currently happening in the story. There is also an option to allow a blue Toad to commentate during multiplayer matches. A green Toad, blue Toad, and yellow Toad accompany the playable Toad in his entry to the court, and two purple Toads hand Peach her racket when she steps into the court.

Toads appear in Paper Mario as the main residents of Toad Town. There is also one in each Toad House in all towns of the game, except for the one in Star Haven. According to Goombario, these Toads had been sent to man the Toad Houses by Princess Peach in order to help the denizens of the Mushroom Kingdom's towns. The Toad inhabitants of Dry Dry Outpost, known as Dryites, wear turbans over their mushroom caps. Also, a Toad martial artist, known as The Master, can be fought as an optional boss at the Toad Town Dojo (of which a yellow Toad just outside the Dojo is a participant, having received a First-Degree Card). The Master's sister, Tayce T. can also cook items for Mario.

The species reappear in Paper Mario: The Thousand-Year Door inhabiting many of the game's towns, and serving as proprietors of most shops and inns found in Rogueport and its surrounding settlements. Many Toads frequent the Glitz Pit, with a large group of fanatical Toads (alongside Lakitu) crowding around the champion Rawk Hawk. Numerous Toad sailors become stranded in the Pirate's Grotto on Keelhaul Key (alongside Piantas Francesca and Frankie) and are freed by Mario with the help of Admiral Bobbery's Bomb ability. Several unnamed Toads serve as crew on the luxury train Excess Express, and as workers and porters at Riverside Station and the terminuses in Rogueport and Poshley Heights. 
Toads in the game are seen with a variety of mushroom cap colors; red, blue, green, orange, and yellow. The caps of some Toads also have a black base color instead of white. Uniquely, the Excess Express waitress features a single large heart on her cap instead of circles. Several Toads are seen to have hair growing from under their cap, and black caps with gold rims are worn by uniformed Toads, appearing as a matching head cover with their outfit.
Several notable Toads are more prominently featured in the game. Toadsworth accompanies Princess Peach to Rogueport, and spends almost the entirety of the game in the town's inn awaiting her rescue. Toadette appears to give Mario a tutorial whenever he obtains an upgrade for his hammer or boots. The chef Zess T. can cook recipes for Mario from a combination of provided items. Jolene serves as Grubba's assistant in the Glitz Pit, and Prince Mush is the former champion. Travelling on the Excess Express is the overweight gourmet Heff T., the wealthy socialite Toodles, and the famous movie star Zip Toad. The train is also haunted by the spectre of a deceased Toad known as Ghost T.. In Poshley Heights, Luigi superfan Toadia is the secretary of the Luigi Fan Club. Mario can also encounter the Traveling Sisters Three, who are triplet adventurers who travel to each settlement over the course of the game. 
Toads also appear in the audience during battles. They provide three times as much Star Power as other members of the audience, and typically throw helpful items such as coins and Mushrooms to Mario. 
The Nintendo Switch remake introduces the Battle Master in settlements around the game, fulfiling a similar role to the Action Toad in Paper Mario: Color Splash. Mario can request the Battle Master's help in practicing the timing to execute action commands, guards, and superguards, facing against harmless cardboard Goomba training dummies physically manipulated by the Battle Master himself.

In Super Paper Mario, Toads do not make a major appearance. Toad himself is present at the beginning of the game, telling Mario and Luigi that Princess Peach had been captured, and several Toads appear as part of the audience when Mario performs a stylish move. Toads also appear in the minigame, Mansion Patrol. The player has to aim the Wii Remote cursor at Boos to defeat them to free the Toads. They also are mentioned in Toad's Catch Card which is the last of the card collection.

Toads appear as supporting characters in Paper Mario: Sticker Star. Many Toads are first to be seen in Decalburg, a town similar to Toad Town, where they are celebrating the Sticker Fest, which are soon disrupted by Bowser. After the disruption, Toads are scattered through Decalburg either stuck within the debris or in need of assistance, which Mario then helps then clean up.
Toads appear in more various areas and help out Mario in a variety of ways. One such case is a group of Toads that act as a ladder for Mario to climb upon so that he could retrieve a missing bridge sticker.
A Green Toad who first appears standing on the rolled-up town square of Decalburg seems to be in charge of restoring the town square. If Mario uses Paperize mode near the fountain and removes it, Green Toad will come out and shows Mario the Sticker Museum he made in his basement.
Additionally, ancient Toad species are revealed in murals of Drybake Stadium, alongside Koopa Troopas. These Toads have human-like proportions, and are much taller than normal Toads, with longer limbs and smaller heads.
After the folded Toad on the roof of a structure in Decalburg has been saved, the Toad states that he was folded 256 times, a reference to the storage capacity of older consoles.

In Paper Mario: Color Splash, Toads appear throughout Prism Island, where most of them have their colors drained by Slurp Guys. The Toads can also be seen at the Roshambo Temples to watch Mario play Super Roshambo.
In Toad Trainworks, there are 12 Toads who can attack Mario by yelling at him, doing 1 damage each, even when Mario manages to block the attack. Mario cannot attack those Toads, however, as the battle ends after each Toad has attacked Mario once to blow off steam.

In Paper Mario: The Origami King, Toads are found scattered around most areas of the game, with their forms altered to origami by King Olly. Mario can free them using his hammer, which causes them to uncrumple, say something to Mario, and run off. As Mario rescues the Toads, he earns Toad Points, which are used to unlock concept art in Musée Champignon. There are 416 Toads in total to be rescued in the game.
The Toads can assist in battle, where they act as an audience and if the player holds  to "cheer", Mario pays them coins, at which point they can damage enemies, solve ring puzzles, directly heal Mario by throwing heart pieces at him, and give items to Mario. If Mario does so in any normal battle, however, he will not earn a "Puzzle-Completion Bonus" at the end of the battle. The effectiveness of the crowd depends on how many coins are spent before using it, as well as the number of Toads that are in the audience. They also make comments on the battle, such as cheering for Mario and telling him to guard.
Inside Temple of Shrooms, there are 40 Toads who had their faces punched out by Hole Punch. The first of those faceless Toads after Mario defeats the Scuttlebugs attacking him, three in a hallway after Mario frees them from a spider web they are dangling from, and three in a room with stakes after Mario frees them by hammering the stakes they are stuck to can be seen walking in a zombie-like fashion. Mario must gather all 40 faceless Toads, including 24 who are dangling from a large spider web, with help from Professor Toad who is carrying a boombox with "Thrills at Night" playing in order to lure Hole Punch out of his hiding place. After Mario defeats Hole Punch, causing him to subsequently explode, all the faceless Toads regain their faces, effectively rescuing them.
Later in the game, cherub-like Toads with white togas and wings known as Shangri-Spa Toads are introduced in Shangri-Spa.

In the Super Smash Bros. series, Toad appears as Princess Peach's neutral special move, being held out in front of her and attacking any opponents if he is hit. If he gets attacked, he will release spores. Toad also appears as trophies which can be unlocked if the players finish the All-Star mode. In Adventure Mode, two Toads appear in the Mushroom Kingdom stage. One appears on the platform where the player fights the Yoshis and the other appears just before the Goal Pole at the end. Both Toads are running back-and-forth in a panic, using the same animation as the Toad from Peach's move. Toad also appears as Stickers in Super Smash Bros. Brawl and as spirits in Super Smash Bros. Ultimate.
In Super Smash Bros. Ultimate, the animation has changed aesthetically, as Peach now hides behind Toad, who guards her and attacks any opponents. Toad also now appears during Peach's grabs and throws. Daisy, as Peach's Echo Fighter, instead uses a blue Toad in Toad's place.

In Luigi's Mansion and its 3DS remake, Toads appear throughout the mansion and save the player's progress when Luigi interacts with them. One Toad followed Mario in from orders of Princess Peach, where both end up lost. The same Toad is found crying in the Foyer, and after talking to Luigi acts as the first save point in the game. The Toads also offer hints to Luigi depending on what part of the story the player has reached. A Toad can be found in the second floor balcony, the first floor washroom, and the Courtyard.

In Luigi's Mansion: Dark Moon, Toads have a bigger role than in the first game, serving as assistants for Professor E. Gadd by inspecting the different mansions in Evershade Valley: a red Toad inspects Haunted Towers, a yellow Toad inspects Old Clockworks, a blue Toad inspects Secret Mine, and green and purple Toads both inspect Treacherous Mansion. E. Gadd tends to occasionally forget about them, and even states how "terrible it must be to work for him". In the game, the Toads are trapped in paintings by King Boo and his henchmen after the Dark Moon shattered. When a Toad assistant returns to the Bunker, he provides a snapshot from E. Gadd's tridimensional security camera which can be used for clues in later missions.

Throughout the game, Luigi must locate the Toad assistants by finding the paintings they are trapped in and using the Dark-Light Device to set them free, then returning them to a Pixelator Screen in the mansion as the Pixelator from the Bunker cannot pixelate both the Toads and Luigi at once. The Toads will follow Luigi through the mansions, but if left alone, they sit idly, crying until Luigi goes near them. They are used to assist Luigi to get through missions: using the Poltergust 5000, he can latch on a Toad's head with  to carry him or by firing the Toad from the nozzle with , the latter which is used for weighing down platforms or accessing alcoves that Luigi cannot reach. The Toads can also retrieve treasure and key items for Luigi if they touch it and retrieve it for him.
Each Toad has his own fear, and cannot cross an area that he fears so Luigi must carry him with the Poltergust 5000 to circumvent this. As long as Luigi is escorting a Toad, Luigi cannot enter another room unless the Toad is with him. The Toad assistants also panic if ghosts suddenly appear or from sudden noises, frantically running around a room until the source is dealt with or they are flashed with the Strobulb; they otherwise cheer for Luigi if he is sucking up ghosts. When dealing with Sneakers, the ghosts may capture a Toad if Luigi is capturing another ghost; the plumber must use the Power Gauge to grab the Toad from the Sneaker to release him, but sometimes it will let him go on its own.
In the ending of the game, the Toad assistants teleport to the Treacherous Mansion's Terrace with the pieces of the Dark Moon to reassemble it. In the ending and the credits, the Toads, as well as the heroes, are shown playing and having good times with the ghosts.

A trio of Toads appear in Luigi's Mansion 3, where they accompany Mario, Luigi, and Princess Peach to The Last Resort. On the bus ride there, driven by Toad, a blue Toad is seen playing with a baseball next to a yellow Toad, who is reading a book, but accidentally drops it. However, like Mario and Peach, they are captured by King Boo and trapped in paintings. After Luigi saves each of them, they wait in Professor E. Gadd's lab for the rest of the game. However, Toad himself is later sent to the Boilerworks by E. Gadd to find an upgrade for the Poltergust G-00, but is attacked by ghosts, prompting Luigi to rescue him again.
After Luigi frees Mario and Princess Peach from their paintings, King Boo traps the Toads alongside E. Gadd, Mario, and Peach in a single painting. After his defeat, Luigi frees them all once more and they all work together to rebuild the hotel.
The Toads are rescued in this order: Toad is rescued first after beating Amadeus Wolfgeist, the blue Toad is rescued second after beating Ug, and the third Toad to be rescued is the yellow Toad, rescued after beating Captain Fishook.
In the ScareScraper, the "Find the Toads!" mission has players find four Toads (red, blue, yellow and green). To clear the mission, they need to bring all four of them back to the TV safely.

Toads appear at the beginning of the game in Mario & Luigi: Superstar Saga and its remake Mario & Luigi: Superstar Saga + Bowser's Minions in Toadtown Square and at Princess Peach's Castle. They are seen escaping the castle after Peach is attacked by Cackletta and Fawful. Toad himself can be controlled in the beginning to warn Mario and Luigi of Princess Peach's capture. Various Toads give Mario mushrooms if he assists them with various tasks before he leaves for the Beanbean Kingdom. The Starshade Bros. patrol the border of the Mushroom Kingdom in Stardust Fields. Toads also have their own immigrant community called Little Fungitown in the Beanbean Kingdom.

Toads appear in Peach's Castle in Mario & Luigi: Partners in Time giving information to Mario, Luigi, Baby Mario, and Baby Luigi. When the Bros. first arrive at Hollijolli Village in the past, they see the Toads who were living there being abducted by Shroobs. The Hollijolli Mayor, who managed to escape detection by hiding (and getting stuck) in his chimney, was quickly captured after being freed by the Mario Bros. In the Vim Factory, the Toads' life force, Vim, is extracted by the Shroobs to be used as fuel for their saucers during their invasion of the Mushroom Kingdom; once the extraction is finished, they slowly become a part of the trees in Toadwood Forest. Toads with red caps and brown spots inhabit Thwomp Volcano as extreme climbers. Two Toads at Peach's Castle run a shop called the Shroom Shop while two Toads named Gramma Red and Gramma Green run their shop Gramma's Place at the Toad Town of the past. Toadiko and Toadbert both accompany Peach in her tour of the past but, like Peach, both ended up being attacked by the Shroobs. Sometimes, a Tanoomba or Tashrooba disguises itself as a Toad (with a raccoon tail added). When the Mario Bros. get close, the Toad turns back into a Tanoomba or Tashrooba.

In Mario & Luigi: Bowser's Inside Story, Fawful infects Toads with the blorbs which causes them to bloat to extreme sizes. Princess Peach requests the aid of Mario and Luigi in finding a cure. Several named, recognizable Toads appear in the game such as Toadsworth and Toadbert. A new character named Dr. Toadley appears later in the game to help Mario and Luigi find the Star Cures; he eventually fuses them into the Miracle Cure. This manages to cure the case of the blorbs and allowed the Toads to regain their original shapes once again. In Mario & Luigi: Bowser's Inside Story + Bowser Jr.'s Journey, there are unused models for blue, yellow, green, and purple Toads.
Toads who escaped the blorbs are also found in Bowser's body after he swallowed them up. They are mostly found in the marketplace-like area in his abdomen called Toad Square.
Towards the end of the game, after Dark Bowser unleashes a major Dark Storm over the Mushroom Kingdom (which he intends to destroy along with its inhabitants), several Toads are seen to be trapped in bubbles along with Broque Monsieur and the Koopa Paratroopa Trio.
In the ending of the game, the Toads along with the Mario Bros. and Peach are released from Bowser's body and can be seen to be rejoicing until Bowser begins his attack on Mario and Luigi after gaining consciousness.

Several Toads are scattered about Pi'illo Island in Mario & Luigi: Dream Team. In Mushrise Park, one Toad is bullied by some Thorbs and Mario and Luigi save him. This Toad gives them Attack Pieces and teaches the brothers about them.

Toads in this game have Toad Villages which are located in various places throughout the Mushroom Kingdom. This is where the trio can buy and sell items in their respective shops. Like in Mario & Luigi: Superstar Saga, some Toads let the trio embark on various tasks (missions) like catching Nabbit, which can reward the trio with new Bros. Attacks or gear, instead of the usual Mushrooms. A blue Toad who delivers mushrooms also appears in this game, though he is known to be sometimes clumsy.
Paper Toads from the Paper Mario series also appear in this game. They are very afraid of their real-life counterparts, causing them to flee and hide in many parts of the Mushroom Kingdom. They made their way into the real world after flying out of the Paper Mario book as a result of an accident involving Luigi in the beginning of the game. As the story progresses, many Paper Toads befriended their real-life counterparts, as well as Toadette, who uses them to create Papercraft. They are also seen helping Mario and Luigi make their way up to Neo Bowser Castle.

In Mario vs. Donkey Kong, three Toads (red, blue, and yellow) appear as employees of the Mario Toy Company, which is attacked by Donkey Kong, who steals the Mini-Mario toys, with the Toads being unable to do anything in the process (although it is not shown what exactly Donkey Kong did to them).
They later appear after Donkey Kong runs out of Mini-Marios following his defeat in World 6, where they, alongside Mario and some Mini-Marios, laugh at him, which enrages him and forces him to capture the Toads and place them in locked cages on top of a giant building. They are eventually rescued by Mario and decide to help him defeat Donkey Kong. During the battle, the Toads carry the large DK Barrels that Donkey Kong had thrown previously back to the stage. Mario and the three Toads succeed in defeating Donkey Kong, who hangs off the building, though the three Toads stomp on his finger and make him fall, celebrating in the process.
The Toads are also among the artwork seen in the true ending credits as well as in the "THANKS FOR PLAYING" image at the end alongside Mario, some Mini-Marios, and Donkey Kong.

In Mario vs. Donkey Kong 2: March of the Minis, many Toads attend the grand opening of Super Mini Mario World theme park. They take the position as interviewers who watch the opening until Donkey Kong disrupts the event.
Additionally, one of the new playable characters is the then-new Mini Toad toy, which is created along with a few other new Minis due to the success of the Mini Mario company. These toys are directly based off of Toad's current design.

Many Toads are shown once again in Mario vs. Donkey Kong: Minis March Again!, appearing in the opening for the expansion of the park from the last game, one of whom sells admission tickets. Some Toads appear again in the game's ending alongside Donkey Kong and Pauline.

In the sequel Mario vs. Donkey Kong: Mini-Land Mayhem!, many Toads are seen in the introduction where they receive Mini Pauline toy, but are soon disrupted by Donkey Kong, who wishes to receive one of the Mini Pauline toys. Likewise in the first game, the Mini Toads reappear in this game as playable characters (though their cap spots are recolored as blue instead of red to fit in with the game's color scheme).

In Mario Superstar Baseball, there are five playable Toads in the game: red, blue, yellow, green, and purple. They all have different stats but they are generally balanced characters. Additionally, Toadsworth and Toadette are also playable in this game and many more Toads appear as audience members. The regular Toads share good chemistry with both Toad characters and Peach, and bad chemistry with Wario, Waluigi, and Bowser.
During the opening cinematic, a red Toad is teammates with Mario, while a yellow Toad is teammates with Wario during their exhibition match at Mario Stadium.

In Mario Super Sluggers, each Toad has good running abilities, but their fielding skills are rather weak. In fact, the Purple Toad has the weakest fielding abilities in the game (tied with King K. Rool). In Challenge Mode, all Toads (even Toadsworth and Toadette) are on either Princess Peach or Daisy's team. The Toads share good chemistry with Peach, Toadette, and Toadsworth, Piantas, Baby Peach, and certain Mii characters, and bad chemistry with Bowser, Bowser Jr., Goomba and Paragoomba. Like the first game, many Toads appear in the audience.
During the opening cinematic, a red Toad rides a yacht with Mario, Luigi, Yoshi, Birdo, and Daisy to the Baseball Kingdom. Upon arrival, they get a view of the island from a lighthouse. While at the Peach Ice Garden, a red Toad is frozen by a Freezie, while the blue Toad breaks the ice by colliding into his frozen teammate. Back at Mario Stadium, Toads in red and blue watch from the bench and witness Luigi making the final out of the team before coming on to the field.

Several Toads are captured by Bowser (along with Mario, Luigi, and even Toad himself) in Super Princess Peach. During the game, Princess Peach has to rescue them to enter the final boss battles. Three captured Toads can be found in every level, and one is guarded by each world's boss, except in Giddy Sky and Bowser's Villa, where Luigi and Mario, respectively, are rescued instead, for a total of 126 Toads; the bosses' captives are replaced by coins when their levels are replayed.
Toads also appear in the minigames. Toad Jump puts the player in control of the character Toad who must jump over foes trying to attack him. By blowing into the DS Microphone, Toad can jump over his enemies to reach safety. If the player blows longer, he will jump longer by using a type of Flutter Jump. Toad also appears in the minigame Toad Tote, where he is in the middle of a burning Toad Town and must be guided to the exit. Lastly, there were blue, yellow, and red Toads in Toad Shot, which had the player shooting various enemy targets to gain points while avoiding any misses and any Mario or Luigi targets, which take points away.

In Super Mario Strikers, Toads appear as sidekick players who can be chosen onto any team. Their colors vary depending on which team captain is selected. For Mario's team, Toad has red spots on his cap, while his jersey is red and cerulean blue. For Luigi's team, Toad has green spots on his cap, while his jersey is green and dark blue. For Peach's team, Toad has pink spots on his cap, while his jersey is pink and light cyan. For Daisy's team, Toad has orange spots on his cap, while his jersey in orange and emerald green. For Yoshi's team, Toad has navy blue spots on his cap, while his jersey is navy blue and orange. For Donkey Kong's team, Toad has brown spots on his cap, while the jersey is lime green and chestnut brown. For Wario's team, Toad has yellow spots on his cap, while the jersey is yellow and purple. For Waluigi's team, Toad has purple spots on his cap, while the jersey is purple and dark blue.

In the sequel Mario Strikers Charged, Toads return as selectable sidekicks. They belong in the playmaker category of players, where they are speedy and they have strong passes, but they lack in tackling and shooting skills. Their skillshot is the Fire Meteor, which burns the Kritter goalie's hands, making him unable to catch the ball. Like in the previous installment, the color of their cap spots and uniform vary depending on which team captain is selected. There are some exceptions; for example, blue Toads are on Wario's team despite them having yellow armor. Also in this game, additional Toads are part of the audience.

Toads appear in the audience in both the Wii version and Nintendo DS version of Mario & Sonic at the Olympic Games, with the audience members also appearing in the Wii version's opening.

Toads reappear as audience members in both versions of Mario & Sonic at the Olympic Winter Games, with the addition of Toads operating cameras in the Wii version. A group of Toads also appear as a band in the opening for Festival Mode, and four appear in the third segment of the Mario World routine in Dream Figure Skating. In the Nintendo DS version, several Toads appear by the boards hosting Events in Adventure Tours mode, as well as appearing at other points where they can be spoken to. A blue Toad runs the museum in Frostown, who will initially deny the player access before eventually revealing that the museum's exhibits had been lost. Talking to the Toad afterward will allow the player to view the museum and the exhibits that they have recovered.

Toads once again form part of the audience and camera crew in both versions of Mario & Sonic at the London 2012 Olympic Games. In addition to this, in the Wii version, Toads of various colors will appear on the London Party map and can be spoken to allow the player to play certain minigames.
In the Nintendo 3DS version, yellow, blue, and purple Toads appear as judges and camera operators in Long Jump, Triple Jump, Pole Vault and Javelin Throw, as well as a single yellow Toad appearing as an umpire in Table Tennis (Doubles). The Toads also make several appearances in the Story Mode, with several appearing outside Big Ben and helping set up for the opening ceremony in the opening, who are later scared off by the arrival of the Phantasmal Fog. A group consisting of a yellow Toad, blue Toad, and purple Toad appear being attacked by imposters alongside Peach and Blaze, and following the imposters' defeat follow the group. The yellow Toad spots Daisy and Amy unconscious and the group goes to see if they are okay. Afterward, the purple Toad later informs the group that he had spotted Rouge in the area. The Toads and the rest of the girls group later call Mario, Luigi, Sonic and Tails during their confrontation with Bowser and Dr. Eggman. The Toads also appear in the Girls Bonus episodes, where they help with the preparation of the invitations for the Olympic Games. Badges of blue, yellow, and purple Toads can also be obtained from the badge machine.

As well as the reappearance of Toads as audience members and camera operators in Mario & Sonic at the Sochi 2014 Olympic Winter Games, a group of five Toads are kidnapped as part of the plot of Mario's Figure Skating Spectacular, with an additional larger group also appearing at the end of the event.

Toads appear again in the audience, operating cameras and as referees in various events in all three versions of Mario & Sonic at the Rio 2016 Olympic Games. In addition to this, in the Wii U version, green, yellow, and purple Toads will appear as Toad's team when he first challenges the player in 4x100m Relay. On Copacabana Beach, a red Toad can be spoken to in order to access the Miiverse Monitor, a blue one can be spoken to so that the player can enter and view information about tournaments, and a green one appears who can be spoken to allowing the player to switch between one and two player tournaments. During the carnival, a purple Toad appears driving the train at the front, as well as one that the player can speak to for the challenges on the Mario float, with a group of yellow Toad dancers also appearing on the float. In the Nintendo 3DS version, colored Toads can be spoken to in the Road to Rio mode. The five colored Toads also appear as Mario's teammates in Football and Football Plus. In Mario & Sonic at the Rio 2016 Olympic Games Arcade Edition, the team of Toads appear accompanying Toad in the 4x100m Relay challenge. Unlike the console version, Blue Toad competes in Toad's team instead of Purple Toad.

In Mario & Sonic at the Olympic Games Tokyo 2020, purple, green, and yellow Toads appear as teammates for Mario, Luigi and Peach respectively in the Volleyball event. A blue Toad appears as the referee in this event, as well as in Judo, and Toads make up a portion of the contenders in the Marathon event. In the Story Mode, Toads of various colors appear in locations in both the 2020 and 1964 versions of Tokyo, where they can be spoken to gain information about various topics. If the player talks to any of the green Toads, they will provide the player with some trivia about Tokyo. Toads also return in the audience and operating cameras. In the Chapter 9 minigame Shibuya Scramble Search, Luigi needs to look for several Toads holding various objects hidden among a crowd of Shy Guys.

Toads are abundant in Mario Golf: World Tour. They are seen all around the Castle Club, manning the desks in the lobby, basement, and boutique, and one looks after the trophy hall. There are lots more Toads outside, supervising the entrances to the Castle Club courses and gates to the tutorial and practice areas, and one more is in charge of the Handicap Tournament booth. Several other Toads hang around the Royal Garden, waiting to give the players tips and encouragement on their game. A yellow Toad and a purple Toad host the tournament awarding ceremonies. A blue Toad holds up the OB sign when the ball goes out of bounds and hosts a "booth" that can be accessed from the menu after the title screen. In this booth, the player can purchase downloadable content, view records for each game mode, check out how many eagles, albatrosses, and holes in one were scored, and learn how to play the game. A purple Toad lets the player view a glossary of golf terminologies. Toads also appear in the post-hole animations of Toad and Toadette.

Several Toads appear in Mario Golf: Super Rush. The Toad commentary returns in this game, although it is not present where the Toads are found in the booth. A blue Toad named the Caddie Master provides the player with their golf clubs at the beginning of Adventure Mode. Blue, green and yellow Toads could be earned as alternate costumes for Toad, by getting an A- rank during the Ranked Match in November 2021.

In Mario Sports Mix, Toad, along with three other Toad colors can be used; the colors being blue, yellow, and green. The alternate colors can be unlocked by playing as Toad 15, 20, and 25 times. Alternatively, the blue and yellow Toads can also be unlocked by clearing certain Mushroom Cup missions. The green Toad on the other hand is found at certain Star Cup routes. Also, the Toads appear as NPCs seen in several courts in the game. The Toads even have a home court for Hockey and Dodgeball at Toad Park.

For the first time since Wario's Woods, a Toad is placed into the starring role in the Wii U title Captain Toad: Treasure Tracker. This title is notably the first game to be named after a Toad within the series. Playing similarly to Captain Toad's Adventures, Captain Toad explores new areas in search of hidden treasures. Toadette additionally co-stars as a playable character in certain levels throughout the game as well. While both playable Toads are unable to jump due to their heavy backpacks, they are capable of using various tools to take out enemies such as using a Super Pickax or tossing turnips in a similar fashion to Super Mario Bros. 2. The story revolves around the two Toads exploring box-like levels in a puzzle/platformer-based adventure for treasure while seeking out the giant bird Wingo that continues to steal the Power Stars from the heroes throughout the game.
Three members of the Toad Brigade can be occasionally seen in some levels, with some members helping Captain Toad out such as giving him Super Mushrooms or Super Gems. All have been updated to wearing explorer suits similar to their captain. Additionally, some later bonus levels include Captain Toad searching and later leading his fellow brigade members on an expedition to finding the Power Star with their help.

Toads appear as selectable sidekicks in the baseball and soccer modes of Mario Sports Superstars. In baseball, Toads of four colors (red, blue, yellow, and green) can be chosen, while in soccer select colors can be chosen as well. They are classified as balance characters. Additionally, Flying Squirrel Toads and Penguin Toads also appear as sidekicks. They are speed characters and appear in baseball in yellow and blue varieties. In soccer, one can instead choose between yellow Flying Squirrel Toads or blue Penguin Toads. Red and blue Toads are also playable in soccer. Toads can also be seen as part of the audience in baseball and soccer. In tennis, Toads are NPCs that watch over the match, in addition to Toad acting as one of the main referees. Toad also appears to give tutorials for tennis and golf.

Toads appear in Mario + Rabbids Kingdom Battle first as the audience of the unveiling of Peach statue during the intro. Before the second battle of Do U Stack Up?, some Toads are attacked by a Smasher. At the end of the game, Toads once again form an audience alongside Rabbids for the unveiling of a Rabbid Peach statue. A figurine of the five colored Toads can be found in a chest in the Ancient Gardens. Toad and Toadette also appear as supporting characters.

Toads reappear as minor characters in Mario + Rabbids Sparks of Hope. They are trapped in Darkmess Puddle in some places on the planets, which leads to a battle in which the heroes must reach the goal.
The following is a list of Quests in which the heroes must save Toads.

The player can also find Toadette stuck in a Darkmess Puddle in Barrendale Mesa and can be rescued by clearing the Toadette Trouble Quest.

Dr. Toad appears as an unlockable playable character in Dr. Mario World. Toads are also seen being infected by viruses in the story of the game, and they appear in World 1, World 7, World 8, World 14, and World 17 once the areas are cleared. Toads also head various menus of the game, including a yellow Toad being at the reception desk in the Staffing menu, a green Toad on the list for Doctor's Orders, and a purple Toad being at the reception desk in the Doc Staffing menu. Additionally, some Toads can be encountered as patients during Clinic Events, with blue Toads being featured in both Season 1 and the Season 1 revisit, and a green Toad in Season 6.

In Super Nintendo World in the ride Mario Kart: Bowser's Challenge, several different colored Toads are seen during the ride racing for Team Mario.

Toads appear in The Super Mario Bros. Movie as the inhabitants of the Mushroom Kingdom. Like their game counterparts, they are very timid. When Peach rallies them to stop Bowser, a Yellow Toad protests that they're too adorable to stand a chance.
Some Toads, such as the Toad General, are bespectacled and elderly.

In Princess Peach: Showtime!, Princess Peach is accompanied by a couple of Toads as they visit the Sparkle Theater, after a Toad gave her a flyer of the venue.

Toads, in general, are very loyal to Princess Peach and the Mushroom Kingdom, but tend to panic in dangerous situations. For example, during Bowser's attack on Peach's Castle in Super Mario Galaxy, many Toads begin to panic, mindlessly running around in circles and occasionally tripping, only to resume mindlessly running around in circles. Also, during the events of Mario & Luigi: Bowser's Inside Story, in the conference held by Princess Peach, a Toad suggests that the entire kingdom should "panic".
It is often due to their cowardice that many Toads are relatively non-violent; that notwithstanding, they may fight if it is by all means for self-defense. However, they seem to prefer running away and cowering before their foes. There are other Toads who develop tough natures, such as those who live in Rogueport, or adventurous natures, such as the Toad Brigade.
However, at most times, they are generally peaceful characters who are happy to assist the heroes. The Super Smash Bros. Brawl trophy for Toad even mentions the aspect of Toads "giving off a strong sense of peace". They are usually characters who remain on the good side in the games as well. At the more peaceful of times, Toads are generally seen as cheerful characters who often have almost childish personalities.

Toads are fairly short humanoids with human skin tones. Possessing the appearance of young human children, Toads are among the smaller races of Mushroom Kingdom. They have dark and beady eyes while they also possess stubby feet with an unknown number of toes and typically possess almost no visible legs, although occasionally, some Toads may be depicted with visible legs, including in Super Mario Bros. 3, Excitebike: Bun Bun Mario Battle Stadium, and the Save Data Toad in Mario Party's village. Their most recognizable trait is their large mushroom caps and small bodies. Typically, Toads either have white caps with red, blue, green, yellow or purple spots. However, some games also introduced Toads with caps of inverse colors such as red, blue, green or pink caps with white spots or light brown caps with dark brown spots (in the case of Toadsworth). Although the Toad species resemble humanoid fungi, they may or may not actually be mushrooms.
Toads generally wear simplistic clothing in the case of males wearing vests that typically reflect off the color of the spots on their mushroom caps; these also reveal a portion of their chest. Some female Toads are shown to also sport vests (such as Toadette); however, they also wear long dresses. Toads also sport tall, white, brief-like, diaper-like or Arabian-like pants (with ridges on the top visible below their open chest) that resemble the base of a mushroom or toadstool stalk, and in the Japanese box art for Super Mario Bros., these pants are low enough to show their belly button. Most Toads also sport common brown-colored footwear. Dryites from Paper Mario prove that some Toads possess different wardrobes based on the area they come from. These Toads wear tagelmusts and desert clothing while also possessing tanned skin. However, in some games, such as Super Princess Peach and Super Mario Odyssey, Toads (or just red Toads) are depicted with said colored spots and wearing blue vests, making them appear identical to Toad himself. The Paper Mario games since Paper Mario: Sticker Star have multiple red Toads that wear either red or blue vests. However, some games, such as Mario Tennis Aces and Mario Kart 8, have made attempts to differentiate the Toads from the playable character Toad by making the only Toads with purple/blue/yellow/red/green spots with the matching vests. This also applies in The Super Mario Bros. Movie, where Toad himself is the only Toad that has red spots while wearing a blue vest, unlike the other Toad species in the movie that wear vests matching the colors of their spots, including red.
According to two 2014 interviews with Koichi Hayashida and Shigeru Miyamoto, Toads were initially designed without specific genders in mind. Many typical male Toads do not appear to have hair. However, many female Toads appear to grow hair under their caps as do some male Toads. Male Toads are shown to be able to grow facial hair. Toads generally have no noses or ears; however, the Super Mario Bros. Super Show proved to be an exception with some Toads appearing even more human-like by appearance. The Starshade Bros. are also Toads that have prominent noses and visible ears.

All Toads have special mushroom caps on the top of their heads, just like actual mushrooms. According to Yoshiaki Koizumi, the producer of Super Mario Odyssey, a Toad's mushroom cap is in fact not a hat but a part of the Toad's head. This is further implied in Mario Kart Tour where Toad characters who don't wear something on their cap cannot win challenges involving characters wearing hats. Shinya Hiratake, the director of Captain Toad: Treasure Tracker, made a reference to Toad caps by mentioning "Captain Toad's mushroom head". Additionally in Super Mario Bros. Wonder, when Blue Toad, Yellow Toad, and Toadette use the Parachute Cap badge, they do not use their caps as parachutes, but rather pull out caps similar to those of Mario and Luigi like the other characters. A loading screen tip in Super Mario Bros. Wonder, as well as an official Japanese news article for the same game, further confirms this by stating that their caps "are their heads–not big hats!"
The Super Mario Bros. Super Show! and The Adventures of Super Mario Bros. 3 show that the cap is simply a type of hat (or at least that it can be safely removed). When Toad took off his mushroom cap in these cartoons, he revealed his round head with a few strands of hair. An unused design of a Toad conductor in Paper Mario depicts their hat (which itself is too small to house a mushroom cap) briefly coming off revealing what could be a bald head without a mushroom cap.
In Mario Strikers Charged, a Toad's skeleton is briefly seen when they are shocked, showing their cap is not a part of their skull. When Toads are hit, they seem to drop spores (as seen in Mario Tennis and the Super Smash Bros. series). Indeed, the Chancellor of Mushroom Kingdom claims to have "almost dropped [his] spores" after hearing Exor crash into Bowser's Keep in Super Mario RPG: Legend of the Seven Stars. Various Toads are also shown to have hair hanging down from underneath their caps, such as Toadofsky and Jolene, or even from the cap itself, such as the Excess Express waitress. Super Mario Run and Super Mario Odyssey both depict Toads wearing headphones on their caps, implying they can hear through them.

While most Toads wear white mushroom caps with different colored spots, there are exceptions. Toadette wears a pink-colored mushroom cap with white spots (another example being Toadiko), and Toadsworth wears a yellowish-colored mushroom cap with brown spots. Some Toads even have caps that are an inverted version of the regular caps, like Toadbert, who has a blue cap with white spots. In New Super Mario Bros. Wii, the color of a Toad's cap can change via power-ups such as the Fire Flower, where Fire Yellow Toad's cap turns yellow with red spots, resembling that of a Mega Mushroom, and Fire Blue Toad's turns blue with red spots. Furthermore, some Toads have other shapes on their caps, such as the yellow stars on Dr. Toadley's cap; additionally, the Excess Express waitress and Vanna T. have hearts on their caps, while the Excess Express engineer has a much smaller cap without a mushroom shape at all.

Toads come in many different colors. The following is a list of all known Toads and the first appearance of the respective Toad.

While the Toads are often shown to be fleeing at the first sign of danger during the games, some situations prove that they are more than capable of protecting themselves during battle. In Super Mario Bros. 2 (the first game that has a Toad as a playable character), Toad is revealed to be even stronger than the Mario brothers themselves and he is also shown to be very speedy as well. The Mario Baseball games also prove the strength of the playable Toads as they are shown to be considerably powerful, despite their size. The Mario soccer games also have the Toads being able to use powerful head butts as an offensive attack, a trait further emphasized in Luigi's Mansion: Dark Moon and Luigi's Mansion 3, where they are shown to be quite durable, capable of surviving a throw into walls or breakable objects (often head-first) without sustaining any injuries. Additionally, the Toads are capable of performing a fiery and powerful skillshot known as the Fire Meteor in Mario Strikers Charged. In Mario Sports Mix, Toad's strongest stat was his speed while his power and technique stats were slightly below average. Additionally, Toad is capable of using his spores to creating a reflective shield as well as gargantuan mushrooms that Toad is capable of controlling to attack opponents for his special move. These attributes are also present for Toad's alternate colorations.

In New Super Mario Bros. Wii, the two playable Toads are shown to have stats that rival Mario and Luigi's own powers and abilities. The Toads are also capable of using the same power-ups (such as the Fire Flower) that are available to be used by the Mario brothers in order to gain new forms. The Toads are also shown to be skilled in riding Yoshis in this game as well. In Super Mario 3D Land, the three Toads that help Mario on his journey are shown to be just as capable as Mario himself when it comes to adventuring around the Mushroom Kingdom. They are also shown to be very speedy as they were capable of easily outrunning Mario throughout the game since the introduction. The three Toads and Toad himself are also capable of using various Power-Ups in this game such as the Propeller Box (which serves the same purpose as the block from New Super Mario Bros. Wii) and the Super Leaf (to become Tanooki Toads and fly alongside Mario during the ending of the game).
In the anime Super Mario Shirayuki-hime, the seven Toads are able to function similarly as Super Mushrooms as they are able to power up Mario after he has been weakened. However, this ability has not been shown in the actual games or any other portion of the Mario series after this OVA.

Toad guards serve as the protectors of the Mushroom Kingdom and Princess Peach. They typically wield spears and shields, their uniforms is a classic mantle. In Super Mario Galaxy these shields have Peach's symbol, her crown, emblazoned on the front. Like normal Toad citizens, Toad guards are not particularly brave, often asking Mario or other heroes to complete dangerous missions instead of doing so themselves. For example, when Bowser launches an attack on Peach's Castle during the centennial Star Festival, the Toad guards request Mario to protect the Princess, although that is the Toads' official duty as royal guards. One of Peach's bodyguards even hides behind Peach when Bowser hovers in front of her balcony.
Initially, the Toads' original names are referred to as mushroom retainers, which can mean that they are a specific group of Toad characters that help guard Princess Peach. They have appeared at the end of each world in Super Mario Bros., thanking Mario for saving them while informing him that Peach is still missing. Despite this early name, the term "mushroom retainer" has rarely been used since the original NES game, having only recurred in the video game series with the enhanced Game Boy Color port Super Mario Bros. Deluxe. "Mushroom retainer" is intended to be an early localized name for the Toads as a species, along with Mushroom People, which has been inserted in the digital manuals of Virtual Console re-releases. The name and role that goes with it does make an appearance in other early media; for example, the Nintendo Adventure Books and the Nintendo Comics System introductory story "The Legend" describes Toad as the royal mushroom retainer. The more reserved Wooster holds a similar position in the series, but is instead called the "royal mushroom assistant" and (somewhat regretfully) directly serves the Mushroom King rather than the princess.