Topmaniac is a boss in Super Mario Galaxy. It is simply a larger Topman. Most Topmen have spikes on their tops, but Topmaniac has ten yellow blades around its edge and a flat, red top. It has two robotic-looking yellow eyes on its front along with a couple green arrows pointing in the direction of its rotation. Topmaniac is fought up to four times when Prankster Comets are taken into account; twice in the Battlerock Galaxy and twice in the Dreadnought Galaxy, making it the most fought boss in the game. Its name is a combination of Topman, its species, and maniac, possibly referring to its buzz saw and aggressive behavior. Topmaniac shares the same boss music as King Kaliente and Bugaboom.

Topmaniac is fought for the first time in the Battlerock Galaxy, in the level, Topmaniac and the Topman Tribe at the very end on the Topman Planet.
In this battle, Mario must hit Topmaniac three times, each time getting harder, to finally knock it out and win the battle. The location of the battle is an arena with electric barriers on the side for Mario to hit if he gets blasted off to the side. At the beginning of the battle, Topmaniac will fall from the sky with 3 Topminis, and try to either hit Mario with its spikes or get the Topminis to ram him into a wall.
To hit Topmaniac, Mario must jump on top of it, which will force it to retract its spikes and spin closer to the walls, Mario must then Spin into it, knocking it into the wall, damaging it in the process. Mario must repeat this three times to win. However, if Mario defeats the enemies it summons, Topmaniac will go for Mario instead of just spinning around randomly. On the third time, instead of Topminis, Topmaniac will use Spiky Topmen, who also attack Mario. After Topmaniac is defeated, it releases its Power Star and the level is completed.
Topmaniac is fought again in this galaxy when a Daredevil Comet comes, which forces Mario to defeat it with only one point of health.

In the Dreadnought Galaxy, Topmaniac is battled again. This time the level is called Revenge of the Topman Tribe, and it is fought in a different location. In this location there are, once again, electric barriers, but this time they are moving.
In battle, Topmaniac must be hit three times once again, and has the basic same strategy as the time before with one minor difference: in this battle, Topmaniac begins with two Spiky Topmen instead of Topminis as before.
Once again, Topmaniac is battled when a Prankster Comet arrives. However, this time, the comet is the Speedy Comet, which forces Mario to defeat it within six minutes.