Berlin Byways is a race course in Mario Kart Tour. It is based on Berlin, the capital city of Germany. It has three routes, named Berlin Byways,  Berlin Byways 2, and Berlin Byways 3. The first route made its debut in the Metropolitan Tour, the second debuted in the Berlin Tour, and the third debuted in the 2022 Anniversary Tour. The course visits various landmarks of the city it is based on, including a section featuring the Berlin Wall with Whomps filling the gaps as obstacles (possibly in reference to its fall in 1989), and the streets of the city leading into the Berlin Hauptbahnhof train station. The third variant is the first course in Mario Kart Tour to have moving traffic consisting of cars and trucks. Additionally, the third route's starting line is in a different location compared to the other two. Despite being labeled as the second route, Berlin Byways 2 debuted more than a year before Berlin Byways did. This marks the first instance of a city course's layouts being released out of numerical order. The first route starts in the opposite direction compared to the other two.
The music for this course consists of techno or electronic music, which soon transitions into orchestral music.
Berlin Byways reappears in the Mario Kart 8 Deluxe – Booster Course Pass as the first course of the Moon Cup. Its theme was arranged for the Booster Course Pass end credits.

Racers start on the Unter den Linden besides the Berlin Cathedral, facing away from the Brandenburg Gate. After a slight right turn, players pass the Rotes Rathaus and drive along the Berlin Wall, avoiding Whomps as they navigate the bendy road. After passing the wall, racers can drive either besides or under the Oberbaum Bridge in a long straight-away, which then turns to the right before reaching the Schiller Monument. Racers can chose to go either left or right around the monument, however both meet up very shortly after. After driving down a short, narrow staircase, players navigate along a small dirt path in the Tiergarten before driving on the long road behind the Brandenburg Gate. After driving through the large gate while avoiding a pair of Thwomps, and taking a slight left, racers drive to the finish line.
At the start of the Tiergarten section after the first curve, there is a path with slightly darker grass with a lower relief to the right that can only be taken with the use of a Mushroom. Once taken, it leaves racers to the street leading to the Brandenburg Gate.
The course also appears as Berlin Byways R (reversed), Berlin Byways T (with ramps), and Berlin Byways R/T (reversed with ramps). The former two debuted alongside the normal variant in the Metropolitan Tour, while the latter debuted in the Spring Tour. In the R variant, one of the Whomps has been moved to the final turn. In the T variant, there is a glide ramp to the right of the Schiller Monument. In the R/T variant, one of the Thwomps is gone and there are now three Whomps on the course; two are on the turn where racers enter the Tiergarten, and one is on the final turn. Additionally, racers can bounce off of the stationary cars at the end of the track.

For this course's tour appearances, see List of Berlin Byways tour appearances in Mario Kart Tour § Berlin Byways.

Select "show" to reveal the drivers, karts, and gliders for which Berlin Byways and its variants are always favored or favorite courses. For instances in which additional drivers, karts, and gliders temporarily had this course and its variants as favored or favorite courses, see List of Berlin Byways tour appearances in Mario Kart Tour.

Racers first start the course on a street next to the Berlin Cathedral, with the Brandenburg Gate and a few glide ramps up ahead on the right. After driving or gliding through the gate, racers go down the Straße des 17. Juni, which is littered with stationary cars that racers can bounce off of. They then proceed through the Tiergarten (formally referred to as "Großer Tiergarten" in Germany) to Großer Stern where the Berlin Victory Column resides. After players make a sharp turn right around the Victory Column, they must make an S-curve into a train station; the exterior is based on Berlin Hauptbahnhof, while the interior takes inspiration from its predecessor station, Lehrter Stadtbahnhof. Inside, they can either drive down the tracks, on the island platform, or take a small shortcut through a stationary Berlin S-Bahn trainset (this train is not directly based on a specific model, but it most closely resembles the DR Class 270 with some inspiration from the DB Class 420) that leads them through another winding S-curve behind the Berlin Cathedral. Half of the S-curve is sunken into the ground, allowing for tricks to be performed at the beginning and ending of the dip, though only the raised portion has coins. Here, the Berlin Television Tower is visible in the background. Afterwards, taking a right turn brings the players to the street where the finish line awaits them.
When configured for Coin Rush, cars and fences will block off a lane in the highway and redirect Gold Mario through the train car, making the collection of coins easier.
The course also appears as Berlin Byways 2R (reversed), Berlin Byways 2T (with ramps), and Berlin Byways 2R/T (reversed with ramps). In the R variant, both train tracks are blocked off by fences. In the T variant, there is a second glide ramp where racers exit the train station. In the R/T variant, racers drive along a large segment of train tracks that was inaccessible before, most of the stationary cars on the road are gone, and there are four Thwomps at the Brandenburg Gate.
Despite not being accessible in the course's normal variant, a patch of road from the T version is shown on Berlin Byways 2's map, making Berlin Byways 2 one of two courses in Mario Kart Tour to include a section of the course on the minimap that is not accessible in the main variant, the other being GBA Boo Lake. In both cases, the exclusive sections are removed from the Mario Kart 8 Deluxe version of the course.

For this course's tour appearances, see List of Berlin Byways tour appearances in Mario Kart Tour § Berlin Byways 2.

Select "show" to reveal the drivers, karts, and gliders for which Berlin Byways 2 and its variants are always favored or favorite courses. For instances in which additional drivers, karts, and gliders temporarily had this course and its variants as favored or favorite courses, see List of Berlin Byways 2 tour appearances in Mario Kart Tour.

Berlin Byways 3, unlike the other two routes, begins in the Tiergarten, specifically on the Straße des 17. Juni, facing away from the Brandenburg Gate and towards the Berlin Victory Column. Racers drive towards the Berlin Victory Column and turn left on the roundabout, before taking a right turn as they approach the Tempodrom. Racers drive by numerous buildings, such as the Kaiser Wilhelm Memorial Church and the Berlin Zoo. After a wide U-turn, players will pass the Charlottenburg Palace before driving on to the road previously seen in Berlin Byways 2 briefly. Shortly after passing the roundabout again, racers turn right on to the Scheidemannstraße, the road lowers itself underground slightly before players drive in between the Reichstag and the Paul-Löbe-Haus, before driving up to the Brandenburg Gate, taking one last right turn, and driving along the Straße des 17. Juni again until reaching the finish line.
Throughout the course, alongside moving coins and Item Boxes, moving cars and pickup trucks appear as obstacles. Most trucks are orange and have surfboards on the back that the players can perform tricks off of, similar to the ones that appear in Mario Kart 8 Deluxe. However, one truck is pink and has a Piranha Plant in its bed.
The course also appears as Berlin Byways 3R (reversed), Berlin Byways 3T (with ramps), and Berlin Byways 3R/T (reversed with ramps). The former two debuted alongside the normal variant in the 2022 Anniversary Tour, while the latter debuted in the 2023 Anniversary Tour. In all three variants, there is significantly less moving traffic, the traffic has been reduced to one lane, and there are stationary vehicles along the track. In the R variant, the pink pickup truck is still present, but its bed is now empty. In the T variant, the only moving traffic is two trucks with surfboards, and racers briefly follow the route of Berlin Byways 2 before using a glide ramp to return to the track.
The T variant is also one of the three track variants (alongside London Loop 3R/T and Sydney Sprint 3T) to not reappear in a future tour or tour rerun, appearing in only one tour.
The course icon of the T variant has an error within it. The pink pickup truck carrying a Piranha Plant is shown despite not appearing in the course.

This version of the course, in its default variant, has 13 vehicles.

For this course's tour appearances, see List of Berlin Byways tour appearances in Mario Kart Tour § Berlin Byways 3.

Select "show" to reveal the drivers, karts, and gliders for which Berlin Byways 3 and its variants are always favored or favorite courses. For instances in which additional drivers, karts, and gliders temporarily had this course and its variants as favored or favorite courses, see List of Berlin Byways 3 tour appearances in Mario Kart Tour.

Berlin Byways returns in Mario Kart 8 Deluxe as part of the Booster Course Pass downloadable content. It is the first course of the Moon Cup, and was added in the third wave of the DLC. It has received significant visual upgrades compared to its appearance in Mario Kart Tour. The cars from Berlin Byways 3 return in this version of the course, and follow the same path they did in that route, making this the second course in the pass with traffic, after DS Shroom Ridge, and the second course in the series altogether to feature traffic that does not follow the route of the entire course, after Mushroom City in Mario Kart: Double Dash!!. They now use the same designs as the vehicles seen in N64 Toad's Turnpike and DS Shroom Ridge, meaning that the pickup truck that holds the Piranha Plant from Berlin Byways 3 does not return, instead every pickup truck has a surfboard. Additionally, all cargo trucks and surfboard trucks have coins on top. The music now features clapping throughout the opening portion, and additional higher pitched synths were also added. The brass instruments are also more audible and pronounced, and a flute was added to the orchestral segment.
The first lap is based on Berlin Byways 2, making Berlin Byways the first Tour city course in the Booster Course Pass to not have the first lap be based on its first route (the other being Tour Madrid Drive). Racers start next to the Berlin Cathedral, facing towards the Brandenburg Gate. After the race begins, they drive under it; there are currently only Item Boxes beneath it, but this will change throughout the race. Afterward, they merge into traffic on the Straße des 17. Juni heading straight for the Berlin Victory Column before taking a right turn around it. At this point, the traffic takes another right through an arrow field, while players instead turn left into the train station. The train can still be driven through, and the Item Box inside is now a Double Item Box. From here, players drive past the Berlin Cathedral and return to the starting line.
The second lap is a combination of Berlin Byways 3 and the final portion of Berlin Byways. Racers once again drive through the Brandenburg Gate - this time, there is a Glide Ramp in front of it. The traffic is still present. Players follow it as it takes a left turn at the Victory Column and drives past the Berlin Zoo. The road eventually comes back to the Victory Column roundabout from another angle. Here, racers turn left, and then turn right onto the road past Charlottenburg Palace. That road eventually crosses behind the Brandenburg Gate before turning right into the Tiergarten. Players then take a long right turn and reenter the Straße de 17. Juni, this time going the other direction, against the traffic. They cross under the Brandenburg Gate once again (which now has Thwomps and Item Boxes) and cross the starting line from the other direction.
The third and final lap is based on the first route of Berlin Byways. Racers turn right and pass the Berlin Wall. Unlike in Tour, the Whomps have now left cracks in the road where they land. Players then drive either way around the Schiller Monument before going through the Tiergarten. Players end the race by going against traffic on the Straße des 17. Juni again, going under the Brandenburg Gate (which now only has Thwomps), and crossing the finish line.
The minimap has been rotated approximately 120° clockwise. The peninsula used for Berlin Byways 2T is now blocked off by fences and has been removed from the minimap, and the course uses an unused road connecting the Schiller Monument to the Brandenburg Gate, making Berlin Byways the second/third Tour city course to include roads that were unused at the time of their appearance in the Booster Course Pass, after Tour Sydney Sprint and alongside Tour London Loop. Like Tour London Loop, the previously unused road in this course was never used in Tour prior to new content for it concluding.
Tour Berlin Byways is one of three Mario Kart Tour courses in the wave overall, alongside Tour London Loop and Merry Mountain.

This version of the course has 18 (moving) vehicles. Vehicles in the left lane notably travel about 20% faster than those in the right lane.

Both cargo trucks use a Propeller Toad Transport design, both buses use a Galaxy Air design, and cars can randomly appear as red cars, black cars, or as Green Shell Taxis.