Singapore Speedway is a race course in Mario Kart Tour. It is set in Singapore, and made its debut in the city's namesake tour, the Singapore Tour. It takes the racers around various parts of the city it is inspired by, which involves gliding over a soccer field and going through a swimming pool with Innertube Goombas on top of the Marina Base Sands resort.
This course has three routes named Singapore Speedway, Singapore Speedway 2, and Singapore Speedway 3. The second route debuted in the Ocean Tour, while the third debuted in the 2023 Winter Tour. The first route has a strong focus on the Marina Bay Sands, the second route takes racers through the Gardens by the Bay and the Helix Bridge, and the third route takes racers over the ArtScience Museum and through Chinatown. The first and second routes have the racers go around Singapore counterclockwise; however, the third route has them go around clockwise instead. This course uses a unique music arrangement when racers are in Chinatown; making it one of two city courses in Mario Kart Tour whose music changes depending on where in the course racers are, alongside Madrid Drive.
Notably, unlike other city courses, which generally condense landmarks down, the area in which Singapore Speedway is set is modeled largely after a real life space, that being the Central Area. Most buildings, including generic skyscrapers, as well as certain routes, match up with their respective placements in the actual Central Area. This is one of two city courses to lack any in-game sponsor advertisements, the other being Athens Dash.
Singapore Speedway returns in Mario Kart 8 Deluxe as the fourth and last course of the Boomerang Cup in the Booster Course Pass. Its theme was arranged for the Booster Course Pass end credits.

In the standard layout, the course begins on the Esplanade Bridge, in between St. Andrew's Cathedral and Merlion Park. The racers start facing east on the map (south by southwest in real life). Racers drive along a brief straightaway before going down a slight downhill slope leading to the Central Area. It takes a slight right on a divided road, then takes two sharp lefts to a dash panel and a circus cannon leading to the top of Marina Bay Sands. The entrance to Chinatown can be seen in the area. After that, the course features a shallow underwater infinity pool with Innertube Goombas. On the side of the pool, there are several dash panels. Next, there is a glide ramp with two following boost rings that take racers across the grandstand of The Float @ Marina Bay with the Esplanade Theatres in the background. Racers then go underneath the stands and make a sharp left afterwards to the finish line. In the course, a blimp with the Mario Kart Tour logo can be found in the background.
The course also appears as Singapore Speedway R (reversed), Singapore Speedway T (with ramps), and Singapore Speedway R/T (reversed with ramps). In the R and R/T variants, racers can bounce off of a blimp. In the T variant, racers briefly drive on a part of the stands that is now free of spectators. In the R/T variant, the starting line is now located in the infinity pool at Marina Bay Sands, making this course one of five courses in Mario Kart Tour to not start in the same location as the original, the others being 3DS Rock Rock Mountain T, 3DS Rainbow Road T, 3DS Rainbow Road R/T, and Athens Dash R/T.

For this course's tour appearances, see List of Singapore Speedway tour appearances in Mario Kart Tour ยง Singapore Speedway.

Select "show" to reveal the drivers, karts, and gliders for which Singapore Speedway and its variants are always favored or favorite courses. For instances in which additional drivers, karts, and gliders temporarily had this course and its variants as favored or favorite courses, see List of Singapore Speedway tour appearances in Mario Kart Tour.

Similarly to Singapore Speedway, the course begins with a slight downhill slope leading to the Central Area. However, this time the racers take a left turn through the One Fullerton mall leading to a glide ramp that sends players in between the towers of the Marina Bay Sands, with the Merlion being visible on the right side of the track before the gliding section begins. During the glider section, a row of five water geysers with a rainbow effect applied will sprout up in a set order, allowing for mid-air tricks. After they have finished gliding, players drive through the Gardens by the Bay. Similar to Toad's Factory in Mario Kart Wii, the road is split into two conveyor belts (which have the same appearance as the ones in Wii Coconut Mall), one half going forwards and the other half going backwards. Players can drive on either side to either drive faster or slower. Unlike other conveyor belts, however, these have small ramps players can use to do tricks, somewhat like the ones in Rainbow Road from Mario Kart 8. The conveyor belt stops after the racers take a reverse curve, taking them onto the Helix Bridge. Players drive off a ramp before driving down to The Float @ Marina Bay. The player then goes underneath the stands, and then makes a sharp left afterwards to the finish line.
The course also appears as Singapore Speedway 2R (reversed), Singapore Speedway 2T (with ramps), and Singapore Speedway 2R/T (reversed with ramps). The former two debuted alongside the normal variant in the Ocean Tour, while the latter debuted in the 2022 Anniversary Tour. In the T variant, racers use a second glide ramp after exiting the Helix Bridge, allowing them to skip the final turn. In the R/T variant, the gliding section is gone and racers instead drive along Kanaami Road, though a pair of water geysers is still present.

For this course's tour appearances, see List of Singapore Speedway tour appearances in Mario Kart Tour ยง Singapore Speedway 2.

Select "show" to reveal the drivers, karts, and gliders for which Singapore Speedway 2 and its variants are always favored or favorite courses. For instances in which additional drivers, karts, and gliders temporarily had this course and its variants as favored or favorite courses, see List of Singapore Speedway 2 tour appearances in Mario Kart Tour.

Singapore Speedway 3 starts in the opposite direction of the other two. It begins similarly to Singapore Speedway R, but instead of gliding up to the Marina Bay Sands, the player instead turns to the right and takes a ramp depositing them on top of the ArtScience Museum. The path splits into two directions with the ramps present here; the left ramp deposits players on a rooftop with a ramp at the end of the section, while the right one leads to a ground section with Sidesteppers and split paths. After that, the player makes a jump before turning to the left and making their way to Chinatown, Singapore, where an alternate version of the Singapore Speedway music will play. After two sharp turns, the player eventually makes their way out of the market segment, and has the option of taking an off-road ramp shortcut before reaching the finish line.
The course also appears as Singapore Speedway 3R (reversed), Singapore Speedway 3T (with ramps), and Singapore Speedway 3R/T (reversed with ramps). In the T variant, there is a glide ramp where racers leave the roof of the ArtScience Museum. In the R/T variant, there are several water geysers throughout the course.
Two glitches exist on this specific route:

For this course's tour appearances, see List of Singapore Speedway tour appearances in Mario Kart Tour ยง Singapore Speedway 3.

Select "show" to reveal the drivers, karts, and gliders for which Singapore Speedway 3 and its variants are always favored or favorite courses. For instances in which additional drivers, karts, and gliders temporarily had this course and its variants as favored or favorite courses, see List of Singapore Speedway 3 tour appearances in Mario Kart Tour.

Singapore Speedway returns in Mario Kart 8 Deluxe as part of Wave 4 of the Booster Course Pass. It appears as the fourth and final course of the Boomerang Cup. Like all other city courses from Mario Kart Tour, this version combines the course's three routes together, forming one course that changes route as the race progresses. It has received significant upgrades both visually and audibly. The sky is much brighter and more vibrant than before. The arrows were removed from the stretch of the ArtScience Museum facing The Float @ Marina Bay and the entire ArtScience Museum is represented on the minimap. The part connecting the platform of The Float @ Marina Bay to the road is bigger. The "Tour" part of the Mario Kart Tour logo has been removed on the side of the blimp. The lights that are turned on inside the leftmost tower of the Marina Bay Sands are re-arranged, while the lights of the other two towers are inverted compared to Mario Kart Tour, so lights that were turned on in Tour are turned off on 8 Deluxe, and vice versa. The barrel in Chinatown has been removed. Koopa Paratroopas have been added as spectators near Marina Bay Sands, and the Sidesteppers have been replaced by Goomba Towers. The minimap has also been rotated 90 degrees counterclockwise.
Lap 1 follows the first route for the course, with a cannon firing racers to the roof of the Marina Bay Sands, where players dodge Innertube Goombas before gliding back down to The Float @ Marina Bay and towards the starting line.
The second lap is initially based on the first route for the course again; however, instead of turning left towards the cannon, racers are directed into Singapore Speedway 3's Chinatown. Upon exiting Chinatown, players are then directed to turn right to get onto Singapore Speedway 2, going through Merlion Park and gliding over to a road beneath the Marina Bay Sands, where a second finish line indicates the start of the final lap. This makes this iteration of Singapore Speedway the second instance of a course using both laps and sections in the Mario Kart series, after N64 Kalimari Desert's appearance in the Booster Course Pass.
In the course's final section, racers continue down Singapore Speedway 2, driving through the Gardens by the Bay and the Helix Bridge before they are directed to make a sharp left onto Singapore Speedway 3, driving through The Float @ Marina Bay and gliding over the ArtScience Museum. The rooftop in this section was reworked to include Dash Panels while removing the ramp at the end, and Boost Rings have been added to this section for gliding racers to use (similar to Singapore Speedway 3T). The cannon on the road ahead from the earlier laps is removed. Racers continue down Singapore Speedway 3, once again driving through Chinatown, then they turn left before reaching the finish line. Upon completing the race, when the results are being shown, racers repeatedly drive along Singapore Speedway 3.
A small portion of the build-up before the music's loop has been tweaked. Excluding Mario Kart 8's Rainbow Road theme, which is used in all trailers for the Booster Course Pass, Tour Singapore Speedway was the only course whose music was used for the second trailer for Wave 4.
Tour Singapore Speedway is one of three courses from Mario Kart Tour to appear in the fourth wave, alongside Tour Amsterdam Drift and Tour Bangkok Rush. It is also one of two city courses from Mario Kart Tour to be the last course in its respective cup rather than the first, the other being Tour Vancouver Velocity.
Internally, the course is referred to as "Cnsw_45", implying it may have originally been intended to be the first course of the Boomerang Cup.