Tokyo Blur is a race course in Mario Kart Tour. It takes place in Tokyo, Japan and makes its debut in the city's namesake tour, the Tokyo Tour. The course's music is based on the theme of 3DS Toad Circuit and 3DS Mario Circuit. This course has four different routes, the most out of any city course alongside New York Minute: Tokyo Blur, Tokyo Blur 2, Tokyo Blur 3, and Tokyo Blur 4, with the last three being introduced in the 2020 New Year's Tour, Summer Festival Tour, and the 2021 Mario Tour, respectively. The fourth iteration of this course differs from the others, in that it is two sections as opposed to two laps. From versions 1.2.0 to 1.4.0, the first layout was called Tokyo Blur 1.
Tokyo Blur reappears in the Booster Course Pass DLC for Mario Kart 8 Deluxe as the first course in the Lucky Cat Cup. The course combines the first three versions of Tokyo Blur together, with a lap dedicated to each variant. Its theme was arranged for the Booster Course Pass end credits.

In the standard layout, all of the racers start the course on the central span of the Rainbow Bridge. Just after the starting line, the road curves to the right through Ginza, then makes a slight left before the Wako store. Not long after, the course makes a right U-turn near the National Diet Building and the Miraikan, then goes through a tunnel. As the Tokyo Skytree, Asahi Beer Hall, and Tokyo Big Sight come into view, the road makes a wide right turn back onto the Rainbow Bridge. Fuji TV's headquarters can be seen on the left. The minimap for this route resembles that of Yoshi Falls from Mario Kart DS and Luigi Circuit from Mario Kart Wii.
The course also appears as Tokyo Blur R (reversed), Tokyo Blur T (with ramps), and Tokyo Blur R/T (reversed with ramps). In the R/T variant, there are Swoops and Noshis on the course; two Noshis appear outside the track while one is standing on the track towards the end.
Before the Summer Festival Tour, no kart had Tokyo Blur R listed as a favorite course; instead, its appearances in the Mario Cup and Toadette Cup relied on the spotlight bonus to raise the Kabuki Dasher and the Quickshaw, respectively, to the top tier.

The first layout of Tokyo Blur is currently the only course based on a real world city to have appeared in seven different tours: the Tokyo Tour, the Summer Festival Tour, the 1st Anniversary Tour, the Mario vs. Peach Tour, the 2nd Anniversary Tour, the 2022 Anniversary Tour, and the 2023 Winter Tour. It also made a minor appearance in the 2020 New Year's Tour as the location of a bonus challenge and in the 2021 Mario Tour as the third and final race in the 2-Player Challenge mode.
For this course's tour appearances, see List of Tokyo Blur tour appearances in Mario Kart Tour § Tokyo Blur.

Select "show" to reveal the drivers, karts, and gliders for which Tokyo Blur and its variants are always favored or favorite courses. For instances in which additional drivers, karts, and gliders temporarily had this course and its variants as favored or favorite courses, see List of Tokyo Blur tour appearances in Mario Kart Tour.

In the standard layout, all of the racers start the course on the central span of the Rainbow Bridge. Just after the starting line, the road curves to the right through Ginza, then makes a slight right before the Wako store. After passing by two Thwomps, the course shifts left at a roundabout and continues straight (with a subway entrance and Akihabara shops visible on the left), then goes under the Kaminarimon left of the Sensō-ji. As the player slights right then turns left at a signalized intersection, the road makes a wide right turn back onto the Rainbow Bridge. Fuji TV's headquarters can be seen on the left.
Tokyo Blur 2 is the first city course that has been featured more than once in Coin Rush.
The course also appears as Tokyo Blur 2R (reversed), Tokyo Blur 2T (with ramps), and Tokyo Blur 2R/T (reversed with ramps). In the T variant, both Thwomps are gone. In the R/T variant, the Thwomps are now side-by-side and there is a glide ramp at the end of the track.

For this course's tour appearances, see List of Tokyo Blur tour appearances in Mario Kart Tour § Tokyo Blur 2.

Select "show" to reveal the drivers, karts, and gliders for which Tokyo Blur 2 and its variants are always favored or favorite courses. For instances in which additional drivers, karts, and gliders temporarily had this course and its variants as favored or favorite courses, see List of Tokyo Blur 2 tour appearances in Mario Kart Tour.

In the standard layout, all of the racers start the course on the central span of the Rainbow Bridge. Just after the starting line, the road curves to the right through Ginza, then makes a slight right before the Wako store. After passing by some Thwomps, the course shifts left at a roundabout and continues straight to the Shuto Expressway, which is built along the Nihonbashi River. The toll plaza bar only opens when a driver passes through; the course then curves to the right. After passing by two Thwomps and after a wide turn up the spiral loop around the Tokyo Big Sight, a Glide Ramp enables the driver to fly out of Shuto Expressway and back onto Rainbow Bridge. Fuji TV's headquarters can be seen on the left.
When configured for Coin Rush, cars and buses will block off a lane in the highway and toll booth, making the collection of coins easier.
The course also appears as Tokyo Blur 3R (reverse), Tokyo Blur 3T (with ramps), and Tokyo Blur 3R/T (reverse and with ramps). The former two debuted alongside the normal variant in the Summer Festival Tour, while the latter debuted in the Mario vs. Peach Tour. In the R and T variants, all Thwomps are gone. In the R variant, there are instead pipes and an oil slick on the course as obstacles. In the T variant, the glide ramp is gone. In the R/T variant, there are additional Thwomps which are larger and appear in different locations, and there is an additional glide ramp where racers exit the Shuto Expressway.

For this course's tour appearances, see List of Tokyo Blur tour appearances in Mario Kart Tour § Tokyo Blur 3.

Select "show" to reveal the drivers, karts, and gliders for which Tokyo Blur 3 and its variants are always favored or favorite courses. For instances in which additional drivers, karts, and gliders temporarily had this course and its variants as favored or favorite courses, see List of Tokyo Blur 3 tour appearances in Mario Kart Tour.

In the standard layout, the track starts out following the same path as Tokyo Blur. All of the racers start the course on the central span of the Rainbow Bridge. Just after the starting line, the road curves to the right through Ginza, then makes a slight left before the Wako store. Not long after, the course makes a right U-turn near the National Diet Building and the Miraikan, then goes through a tunnel. The course then makes a sharp left to follow a small portion of Tokyo Blur 2 in reverse, going under the Kaminarimon next to the Sensō-ji, where the second segment of the course begins. The track then immediately makes a U-turn toward the Shuto Expressway; the remainder of the course follows the path of Tokyo Blur 3, entering the expressway through a set of toll gates before rounding the spiral loop around the Tokyo Big Sight. Unlike in Tokyo Blur 3, the first part of the expressway is divided down the middle by fences, and there are oil slicks as obstacles instead of Thwomps. A glide ramp sends the player back onto the Rainbow Bridge, where a set of Thwomps on either side threatens the players just before the finish line.
The course also appears as Tokyo Blur 4R (reversed), Tokyo Blur 4T (with ramps), and Tokyo Blur 4R/T (reversed with ramps). In the R and R/T variants, the Shuto Expressway portion is mostly reverted back to how it was in Tokyo Blur 3. In the T variant, the glide ramp is gone. In the R/T variant, racers start and end the race on Kanaami Road above the starting line. Additionally, an extra pair of Thwomps appears just after the second U-turn.

For this course's tour appearances, see List of Tokyo Blur tour appearances in Mario Kart Tour § Tokyo Blur 4.

Select "show" to reveal the drivers, karts, and gliders for which Tokyo Blur 4 and its variants are always favored or favorite courses. For instances in which additional drivers, karts, and gliders temporarily had this course and its variants as favored or favorite courses, see List of Tokyo Blur 4 tour appearances in Mario Kart Tour.

Tokyo Blur makes its console debut in Mario Kart 8 Deluxe via the Booster Course Pass. It is the first course of the Lucky Cat Cup, and as such was added as part of the first wave of the DLC. Similarly to Tokyo Blur 4, it is an expanded and combined version of the first three routes for this course; however, this version dedicates one lap to each variation through the use of changing arrow fields. 
The first lap is based on Tokyo Blur, turning left at the Wako store and making a U-turn past the National Diet Building. The second lap is based on Tokyo Blur 2, turning right at the Wako store and then left underneath the Kaminarimon. The third and final lap is based on Tokyo Blur 3, turning right at the Wako store and then onto the Shuto Expressway. The minimap has been rotated 90 degrees clockwise compared to the equivalent minimaps for the variants in Tour. Unlike Tour Paris Promenade, its hazards - Thwomps - have been retained (albeit with slightly different arrangements). One additional traffic cone was added at the expressway entrance. 
Tour Tokyo Blur is one of three courses to originate from Mario Kart Tour to appear in the first wave of the DLC, alongside Tour Paris Promenade and Ninja Hideaway. This is also one of five tracks in Mario Kart 8 Deluxe where players can hit the banner (causing it to spin), like Mario Circuit, DS Wario Stadium, 3DS Neo Bowser City and 3DS Rock Rock Mountain. Unlike the other courses mentioned, this is only possible during the final lap.
As with all other courses from Wave 1, this course's icon and lighting were adjusted slightly in the 2.1.0 update.