Vancouver Velocity is a race course in Mario Kart Tour. It is set in Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada, and makes its debut in the city's namesake tour, the Vancouver Tour. There are three routes for this course, which are named Vancouver Velocity, Vancouver Velocity 2 and Vancouver Velocity 3. The second route debuted in the Penguin Tour, while the third debuted in the 2022 Autumn Tour. The course's different routes take racers to various landmarks of the city, and even takes racers into more natural parts of the area. The first route takes racers over the Capilano Suspension Bridge, the second route focuses on the Lost Lagoon, while the third route features the Vancouver Public Library. The second and third routes also feature the Rogers Arena which returns from Mario & Sonic at the Olympic Winter Games where it was known as Canada Hockey Place, and which houses Skating Shy Guys. Additionally, the second route starts in the opposite direction compared to the other two. The starting banner is notably based on the Gastown steam clock.
Vancouver Velocity returns in Mario Kart 8 Deluxe as the fourth and final course of the Cherry Cup in the Booster Course Pass. Its theme was arranged for the Booster Course Pass end credits.

Racers start the course in a street next to the Vancouver Convention Centre, with the Vancouver Olympics cauldron up ahead on the right. After driving underneath the Olympics cauldron, players can see the entrance to the Capilano Suspension Bridge Park (referred to as "Vancouver Park" on signage) with a little concessions building on the left and the Capilano Suspension Bridge on the right, where numerous Swoops reside. After players make a sharp turn right onto the suspension bridge itself, they must make an S-curve on the bridge to a glide ramp, which takes them back behind the Convention Centre where Science World is visible in the background. Afterwards, taking a right turn brings the players to the street where the finish line awaits them. At the end of the course, the player can use a Mushroom to pass through a small corner with some decorations.
The course also appears as Vancouver Velocity R (reversed), Vancouver Velocity T (with ramps), and Vancouver Velocity R/T (reversed with ramps). In all three variants, the Swoops are gone. In the R variant, snowmen now appear on the sides of the track between the suspension bridge and the Olympics cauldron. In the T and R/T variants, the gliding section is removed; in the T variant, there is instead a glide ramp at the start of the suspension bridge. In the R/T variant, there is instead a glide ramp where racers exit the park.

For this course's tour appearances, see List of Vancouver Velocity tour appearances in Mario Kart Tour § Vancouver Velocity.

Select "show" to reveal the drivers, karts, and gliders for which Vancouver Velocity and its variants are always favored or favorite courses. For instances in which additional drivers, karts, and gliders temporarily had this course and its variants as favored or favorite courses, see List of Vancouver Velocity tour appearances in Mario Kart Tour.

Racers start the course in a street next to the Vancouver Convention Centre; however, they are facing the opposite direction compared to the first route. After a right reverse curve through Jack Poole Plaza, the player takes a sharp right, with Science World visible on the left. The player then enters the Rogers Arena and drives across the ice rink before being launched out of a circus cannon across to Stanley Park near the Lost Lagoon. The player then takes another sharp right to travel along a shoreline to the right, then moves across a pedestrian bridge that arches right, with the Lions Gate Bridge in the background. After two consecutive drops to a boardwalk with the sailboats from GCN Yoshi Circuit, the player travels underneath the Vancouver Olympics cauldron via another right reverse curve to the finish line. The release of this layout marks the longest period of time between the release of two different routes, debuting almost two years after the first.
The course also appears as Vancouver Velocity 2R (reversed), Vancouver Velocity 2T (with ramps), and Vancouver Velocity 2R/T (reversed with ramps). In the R and T variants, figure skating Shy Guys appear in the Rogers Arena. In the T variant, racers exit the arena at ground level and use a regular glide ramp a bit later. In the R/T variant, there is a Big Piranha Plant in the middle of Rogers Arena.

For this course's tour appearances, see List of Vancouver Velocity tour appearances in Mario Kart Tour § Vancouver Velocity 2.

Select "show" to reveal the drivers, karts, and gliders for which Vancouver Velocity 2 and its variants are always favored or favorite courses. For instances in which additional drivers, karts, and gliders temporarily had this course and its variants as favored or favorite courses, see List of Vancouver Velocity 2 tour appearances in Mario Kart Tour.

Racers start the course in a street next to the Vancouver Convention Centre, facing the same direction as they do in the first route, facing towards the Vancouver Olympics cauldron. After a straightaway, racers drive down into the Massey Tunnel which takes them round a wide left turn, before passing the Vancouver Public Library and driving down the library's Central Branch, which is lined with stores, including a bakery, a café, and a snack shop. After a wide right, racers approach the Rogers Arena, similar to Vancouver Velocity 2, and take a left turn to enter the arena. After swerving around a stand with Shy Guys on, they leave the stadium, passing by the statue of Roger Neilson, turn left, and drive down more streets of the city before reaching a long straightaway to the finish line.
The course also appears as Vancouver Velocity 3R (reversed), Vancouver Velocity 3T (with ramps), and Vancouver Velocity 3R/T (reversed with ramps). In the R variant, there are ice blocks in the Rogers Arena instead of figure skating Shy Guys. In the T variant, racers use Kanaami Road to enter the arena from above like in Vancouver Velocity 2. In the T and R/T variants, racers are directed straight through the middle of the arena by fences.

For this course's tour appearances, see List of Vancouver Velocity tour appearances in Mario Kart Tour § Vancouver Velocity 3.

Select "show" to reveal the drivers, karts, and gliders for which Vancouver Velocity 3 and its variants are always favored or favorite courses. For instances in which additional drivers, karts, and gliders temporarily had this course and its variants as favored or favorite courses, see List of Vancouver Velocity 3 tour appearances in Mario Kart Tour.

Tour Vancouver Velocity returns in Mario Kart 8 Deluxe as part of Wave 5 of the Booster Course Pass DLC. It appears as the fourth and last course of the Cherry Cup. It has received significant visual upgrades compared to its appearance in Mario Kart Tour. 
The first lap follows the route of Vancouver Velocity, the second lap is based on Vancouver Velocity 2R while taking an unused exit from Rogers Arena at the end, and the third and final lap adheres to Vancouver Velocity 3's route. The Capilano Suspension Bridge is now in anti-gravity, making it the only city track from Mario Kart Tour to have an anti-gravity section (excluding the half-pipes in Tour Athens Dash and Tour Los Angeles Laps). The ending shortcut along Vancouver's first route is now grassy. It is now possible to briefly go underwater in the Lost Lagoon. The gliding section of Vancouver Velocity 2R has been altered considerably, as there is no longer a cannon, and the route beneath it has opened up as a result. Additionally, the trees in the roundabout have been removed, with the roundabout itself having a ramp on it. Thus, the Rogers Arena hole racers were shot through or into was closed up, with an "M Arena" insignia added in its place. The Massey Tunnel has its right side closed off now, meaning it cannot be tricked off of when it ends. The minimap has also been rotated 90 degrees counterclockwise.
Vancouver Velocity is one of three courses from Mario Kart Tour to be present in the fifth wave, alongside Tour Athens Dash and Tour Los Angeles Laps. It is the only one that does not utilize sections. It is one of two city courses from Tour to be the last course of a cup instead of the first, the other being Tour Singapore Speedway.
A very brief portion of Vancouver Velocity's music was present within the internal data in version 2.1.0. The filename for the music snippet was "Cnsw_61", meaning it was assigned to the first course of the Acorn Cup, as part of the sixth wave. The original snippet used a synth signficantly less similar to the original Tour track compared to the final remix.