Tower Bridge is a historic bridge in London that has made a small number of appearances in the Super Mario franchise.

Tower Bridge make a few appearances in the Wii version of Mario & Sonic at the London 2012 Olympic Games, where it first appears during the game's opening and also as the image on the sticker for 2-on-2 Tag!. It also appears as a feature on the map for London Party, where players can use it to cross the river.
In the Nintendo 3DS version, Tower Bridge appears in the background for one stage of the Marathon Event. Tower Bridge also appears as the location for several of the Story Mode episodes. It first appears as the setting of The Blocked Bridge, in which the bridge has been raised due to the low visibility caused by the orange Phantasmal Fog, meaning that Yoshi, Sonic and Tails are unable to cross it. After beating a pair of imposters, the group encounter Shadow and Silver, and later Jet, who manages to find the fog machine after being defeated in The Wind Master. Jet unsuccessfully tries to destroy the machine and the group is approached by Bowser Jr. In Enter Bowser?!, Bowser Jr. is defeated by the group and accidentally reveals that Bowser is working with Dr. Eggman before escaping on his Bullet Bill, followed by Yoshi. Shadow destroys the fog machine and the clears the fog from around the bridge, allowing it to be lowered, and the group split off to investigate other foggy areas around London. Yoshi, Shadow, Silver and Jet call Mario, Luigi, Sonic and Tails from Tower Bridge in The Grand Showdown to tell them that they have cleared the fog from the area and to encourage the group. Tower Bridge finally appears in the episode Junior, Super Hero?, in which Bowser Jr. defeats an Egg Pawn and Egg Flapper that were cornering Omochao and a Chao, and then is challenged by Shadow and Silver to an Olympic event, in which he defeats them before heading off with Goomba to find more robots to defeat.

Tower Bridge also appears in the London Loop track in Mario Kart Tour, in which a portion of the track has players drive across Tower Bridge. After some time, the bridge opens up to form a Ramp for players to jump over. In the T variant of the course, the bridge also features double decker buses with ramps on the roofs that can be jumped on. In London Loop 3, when the bridge rises up, the player can perform a Jump Boost on the ramp, like in London Loop, but when the bridge fully rises, the ramp will become a Glide Ramp instead.

Tower Bridge returns in the Mario Kart 8 Deluxe – Booster Course Pass rendition of Tour London Loop.