Trampolines, also known as springs and Springboards (alternatively springboards or Spring Boards), appear in the Super Mario franchise as objects on which characters can bounce. In games where this default bounce does not go very high, characters can spring-jump on a trampoline to achieve the standard "higher than jumping" bounce. 

In Donkey Kong Jr., a Jump Board, or spring board, is prominently featured in the Jump Board Scene. Junior can use it to jump over a pit. As with most later games, the player can hit the jump button again with the right timing to perform a Super High Jump (or Super Jump). This can allow the Jump Board to be used as a shortcut to reach the hovering platform above it, or even the ledge to the upper-left. The Jump Board closely resembles the harmful jacks from the original Donkey Kong.

In Donkey Kong for the Game Boy, Jump Stands appear. They are found throughout levels, and occasionally use varying designs. If Mario jumps on one, he can jump higher than usual. In addition, some Jump Stands can be placed through the use of square icons. When Mario jumps at a Jump Stand item, the game freezes and the player has to place the Jump Stand to any free point in the level. The Jump Stand is timed and disappears after the time has passed. This timer indicated with a music that starts playing as soon as the road is placed and gets faster gradually. The timer can be reset to 0 if Mario places another Jump Stand within the first Jump Stand's time limit, or any other placeable objects such as Roads, Ladders, and blocks. After disappearing, the Jump Stand can then be reactivated.

Jumping boards (also referred to as Jumpers, Springs, or Spring Blocks) first appear in the Super Mario series in Super Mario Bros. and return in its direct sequel, Super Mario Bros.: The Lost Levels. Upon pressing the jump button at the right time, Mario will jump with increased height.
In Super Mario Bros.: The Lost Levels, a green variety known as the Super Spring is introduced, which further increases Mario's jump height with a well-timed press of the jump button.
In Super Mario Bros. Deluxe, a smaller variant known as the Trampoline Floor appears in the VS Game and You VS. Boo modes.
Jumping boards also appear in Super Mario Bros. Special. However, they are more difficult to activate due to their poor collision detection.

Trampolines (originally known as Jumping Boards) appear in Super Mario World. This is the first game in which Mario and Luigi can carry a Trampoline, an ability that would later be carried on to future games, including the New Super Mario Bros. series.

In Super Mario Sunshine, springboards appear in Noki Bay. When water touches them, they shrink and Mario is able to carry them around, allowing him to reach various high places.

Springboards appear in Super Mario Advance 4: Super Mario Bros. 3 in two World-e levels: Ice Dungeon and Vexing Doors. They use the same sprite as in Super Mario World and can be carried in the same way.

Trampolines return in New Super Mario Bros., New Super Mario Bros. Wii, New Super Mario Bros. 2 and New Super Mario Bros. U, having the same function as they did in previous games.

In Super Mario Galaxy, large, round, orange springboards with a Ground Pound symbol appear, which can bounce Mario extra high if he Ground Pounds on them. These cannot be carried around, unlike in previous games.

The orange springboards from Super Mario Galaxy return in Super Mario Galaxy 2, having the same function as they did in that game. Additionally, a light-blue springboard appears in the game, which is square and marked with a pair of footprints, and can be used by simply jumping on it. Like the springboard it cannot be carried around. Three drums in Cloudy Court Galaxy share the same function as these trampolines, but are suspended in the air. Ground-pounding a drum causes Mario to gain greater height.

Super Mario 3D World and Super Mario 3D World + Bowser's Fury features enemy springboards known as Hop-Chops. Hop-Chops often appear in groups where the player must find which is the 'correct' Hop-Chop that, rather than simply falling apart, will turn into a functional springboard upon defeat. When turned into a springboard, they function almost identically to their appearances in other Super Mario games: They can be carried with the run button, thrown, jumped on, and hitting them with a ground pound will cause the player to jump extra high. Springboards turn back into Hop-Chops after a short period of time if they are not attacked again.
A different type of trampoline, called a Jump Panel, also appears in certain levels, where it normally does not cause the player to bounce, but pressing the jump button will cause it to launch the player to distant heights.

Trampolines return in Super Mario Maker, Super Mario Maker for Nintendo 3DS, and Super Mario Maker 2, as items placed throughout the course. Mario and various objects such as Bill Blasters can bounce on them. They can be carried in all styles except Super Mario Bros., as Mario cannot carry any objects in that style. Trampolines can be turned sideways in editing mode, making them able to bounce back objects that run into them. In this form, however, they cannot be carried in any style except by SMB2 Mario in the Super Mario Bros. style. The Trampoline also appears in the original Super Mario Maker as a costume.

Super Mario Run uses a new variation of Trampoline. The top and bottom are yellow, and the inner portion is blue. A red arrow runs across the bottom and inner layers. Trampolines are triggered when a player taps while their character runs across its surface. It launches the player upwards. If the screen is held, the character will slowly spin as they descend, similarly to the Spin Block. This spin reduces the player's forward speed and ends immediately once the screen is released. Players can use Trampolines to reach areas too high to be reached via normal jumps or take advantage of its slow descent to collect coins.

A specific flower-like trampoline called the Hat Trampoline appears in Super Mario Odyssey that opens up when struck by Cappy. It propels Mario into air spinning, like the Spindrifts from Super Mario 64. Traditional trampolines also appear and bounce Mario into the air jumping. They are embedded into the environment and vary depending on the kingdom they are encountered in.
The ones in the Cascade Kingdom (erroneously referred to as "hat trampolines" in the Prima Games guide) is a beige tarp. If Mario steps on one, then he will bounce off it, though he will gain much more height from this if he does it while capturing a T-Rex.
Four trampolines occur in the Cascade Kingdom. The first one is located beneath stone walls close to where the T-Rex is first found, and it can be accessed by capturing the T-Rex and using it to destroy the walls. Another is located near the Crazy Cap shop close to where "Our First Power Moon" is located. The remaining two trampolines are found in the Dinosaur Nest area; one of them is at the ground level where the "Dinosaur Nest: Big Cleanup!" Power Moon is found, and the other is further below, and must be utilized to obtain the "Dinosaur Nest: Running Wild!" Power Moon.
In subsequent kingdoms, iterations of trampolines include food carts, parasols, awnings, taxis, and big mushrooms.

A spring plays an important role in the German Club Nintendo comic "Mario will hoch hinaus." Trying to impress Princess Peach, Mario uses one which launches him extremely high into the air. Mario does not return to the ground for a long period of time.

Jumping Boards appear in the Super Mario World television series in the episodes "The Wheel Thing" and "King Scoopa Koopa". They appear to be made of stone, and their springy part is green instead of white and orange.

In Super Mario RPG: Legend of the Seven Stars, two types of trampolines appear: warp trampolines make the player escape to the world map, and smile trampolines make the player exit the immediate area and enter a neighboring location. In the Mole Mines, one smile trampoline is a trap with an unseen ceiling. When Mario uses it, he hits his head and falls unconscious, which is required to reveal Croco.

In Paper Mario, two types of jump pads appear. Red ones launch Mario straight up towards a set location, while blue ones retain the player's control over Mario's jump and are rarer.
The first blue jump pad Mario encounters is in the back area of Goomba Village, where it can be used to get a Fire Flower. On Goomba Road, the Red & Blue Goomba Bros. use a blue jump pad to descend from a ledge. After beating them, Mario can use it to continue to the Goomba King's Fortress. In the Toad Town sewers, a blue jump pad is used to reach the Power Smash badge. Two blue jump pad appear in the room where the Ultra Boots are found. Two more blue jump pads appear in Bowser's Castle. One of them must be uncovered using the nearby ! Switch.
At the west entrance to Toad Town, Mario can use his hammer to knock a red jump pad out of a tree and get the Hammer Throw badge. Two red jump pads are found at Mt. Rugged. One is used to reach a slide and the other is used to exit the pit that contains the letter to Goompapa. In the Dry Dry Ruins, a red jump pad is found next to the Super Block. A red jump pad is found in one of the rooms of Tubba Blubba's Castle and at the bottom of the Windy Mill. Red jump pads are used to enter and exit Shy Guy's Toy Box. One red jump pad appears in Yoshi's Village, where it is used to reach the Ravens. Three jump pads appear in the same large room inside Mt. Lavalava. Four jump pads appear throughout the Crystal Palace. A red jump pad is found within the cavernous room of Bowser's Castle.

In Paper Mario: The Thousand-Year Door, jump pads have been redesigned slightly, featuring four sets of yellow folding arms in a cross pattern with the platforms on the top and bottom now being identical. Jumping off of one makes the same sound as heard when using a trampoline in Super Mario World.

In Super Paper Mario, jump platforms feature slight differences to their previous model; notably the bolts connecting each segment are gone, new geometry was added towards the bottom, and new sound effects play when one is used. Similar to Paper Mario, red ones launch the player's character straight up towards a set location and are typically used for vertical loading zones, while blue ones retain the player's control over their character's jump. The player can press  when landing on blue jump platforms to launch higher, in a similar fashion as the 2D Super Mario games. This behavior is also shared with the Jump-over clouds of The Overthere, including Cyrrus.

In Paper Mario: Color Splash, a trampoline themed after its Super Mario Bros. appearance appears in the Green Energy Plant.

In Wario World, spring-like trampolines appear in every trapdoor course, giving Wario a means of escape. There are also a number of springboards outside of trapdoor rooms that boost Wario up and over walls and cliffs, taking the form of a rabbit. Additionally, a small ghostly pair of springs appear in Captain Skull's Showdown.

In Mario & Luigi: Superstar Saga and Mario & Luigi: Superstar Saga + Bowser's Minions, trampolines called Spring Pads appear. They can be used to jump over walls or hedges.

In Mario & Luigi: Partners in Time, Trampolines are powerful Bros. Items that require the availability of all four Bros. Each Bro. jumps onto the Trampoline and stomp on the foe in a random order. If timed correctly, they jump back onto the Trampoline. If timed poorly, they will knock the Trampoline away, until all four Bros. fall. It functions similarly to the Cannonballer, except attacks can be landed indefinitely. Differently designed Trampolines can also be found in the overworld, though only the babies can use them, as the adult brothers are too heavy to use them.
Small yellow trampolines appear as overworld objects, found in areas such as the Shroob Mother Ship, Yoshi's Island, and Yoob's Belly. If the adult Bros. step on them, the trampoline releases air and deflates. If the baby Bros. step on it, it launches them high up into a different area.

Springs are common objects in the Mario vs. Donkey Kong series. In Mario vs. Donkey Kong, springs do not have enough force to launch Mario in the air, requiring the player to press  while Mario is on a spring to use a Spring Jump. The Nintendo Switch remake of the game also introduces a new type of spring that can be carried, featured in some new levels in Merry Mini-Land and Slippery Summit. These springs reuse their design from Super Mario 3D World.
Springs continue to appear in subsequent Mario vs. Donkey Kong games, where they can be used to bounce Minis to higher positions. In Mario vs. Donkey Kong 2: March of the Minis, two types of springs appear, known as Yellow Springs and Blue Springs. The player must swipe up on a Mini using the  stylus to make the Mini jump onto a spring. Yellow Springs launch a Mini in an upward arc, while Blue Springs launch a Mini in a forward arc. Mario vs. Donkey Kong: Minis March Again! features both of these springs, as well as Box Springs that can contain either type of spring.
Mario vs. Donkey Kong: Mini-Land Mayhem! replaces these springs with Long Springs, which function like Blue Springs, and High Springs, which function like Yellow Springs. These springs are resource objects which can be picked up and placed in different locations. Both of these springs reappear in Mario vs. Donkey Kong: Tipping Stars, while Long Springs also reappear in Mini Mario & Friends: amiibo Challenge.

Springboards appear in two colors in Super Princess Peach: green springboards are fixed in place, and orange springboards can be picked up with Perry, moved via Poundbrella, or bounced off of Princess Peach's body by touching the side. Additionally, green springboards come in two sizes: normal or giant, which has a slightly longer charge time and allows the player to reach greater heights.

In Super Smash Bros. Brawl, Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS, and Super Smash Bros. for Wii U, the spring from Donkey Kong Jr. appears as a regular item. If jumped on, a player will be launched in the air much higher than with a normal jump. If the spring is knocked on its side, however, the player will be launched sideways. A different kind of springboard also appears as a stage element throughout the Super Smash Bros. series, including The Subspace Emissary and Smash Run.

Trampolines appear in several levels in Wario Land: Shake It! as yellow springs, often line up in a row. Pressing  as the player makes contact with one gives a higher bounce, and Ground Pounding it will give even greater height. They are especially prominent in stages such as Wreck Train and Mount Bighill.

In Mario Party: Island Tour, a springboard briefly appears on the Star-Crossed Skyway board, where the player jumps onto it to launch themselves to the fourth area of the board after the third Star Stage.

In Super Mario Party Jamboree, Trampolines appear as items that can be used in the Bowser Kaboom Squad mode.