Trash Cans (or trash cans), also referred to as Garbage Cans (or garbage cans) and Bins, appear in the Super Mario franchise as objects commonly located in urban areas.

In the Game Boy remake of Donkey Kong, Trash Cans are first encountered in the Big-City. They appear as seemingly inanimate objects that Mario can use to reach higher areas, or pick them up and throw them to defeat common enemies like Bowbows. Once a Trash Can hits or is hit by another object or enemy, it falls off-screen.
Certain Trash Cans, called Dust Men, are enemies.

In the Game Boy Advance version of Mario Bros. included in Mario & Luigi: Superstar Saga and the Super Mario Advance series, Garbage Cans appear in the Mario Bros. Battle 2-player mode. A Garbage Can takes the place of the lower POW Block, but it cannot be picked up and remains in place on the ground; however, it flips its lid at intervals. If a player approaches it while carrying another player, it will open and automatically close if thrown inside. If players get trapped inside, they can escape using a Super Jump (which can daze a player standing on it) or merely jumping when the lid reopens. In addition, players will be randomly holding Koopa Shells, POW Blocks, Fish Skeletons, and Eggs (which in itself can contain coins, Hearts, or Starmen).

Garbage Cans return in Mario vs. Donkey Kong with the same function as in Donkey Kong for the Game Boy. They are introduced in Level 1-1 of Mario Toy Company, once again as elementary objects that Mario can use as means of attack or as platforms. Colored variants of Garbage Cans also appear in certain boss battles against Donkey Kong like in Level 1-DK, with the spawned color corresponding to the Color Switch that is currently pressed at the time. Once another Color Switch is pressed, any existing colored Garbage Cans of the inactive color will disappear except for ones currently being held by the player.
Their live counterparts, now called Bucket Men, also reappear.

Trash Cans can be collected from Item Boxes in Mario Kart Arcade GP. Here, the item is inanimate and consists of three small red, green and blue fruit cans strung together. They perform lock on shots onto another racer, and serve to slow down the competition.

Bins appear in the Metro Kingdom in Super Mario Odyssey. They are often found in dark alleyways, accompanied by garbage bags. Hitting a bin with a Cap Throw or with a Ground Pound yields a single coin.

Trash Bins are commonly found all across The Last Resort in Luigi's Mansion 3. The player can search them and collect the money that spews out of them or destroy them by pulling on them with a Suction Shot and collect the money that way.
Additionally, an enemy, the Possessed Bin, also exists in the game.

Bins make minor appearances in the New Donk City golf course in Mario Golf: Super Rush.