Triple Green Shells are clusters of three Green Shells appearing predominantly in the Mario Kart series.

Triple Green Shells first appear in Mario Kart 64. When used, three Green Shells are deployed to orbit the player's kart. The player may throw each Green Shell one-by-one whenever they please, and can also use the Green Shells to block incoming items.

Triple Green Shells return in Mario Kart: Super Circuit, behaving exactly the same as in Mario Kart 64.

In Mario Kart: Double Dash!!, Triple Green Shells are among one of the two special items usable by Koopa and Paratroopa; as with all special items in the game, they can also be used by Petey Piranha and King Boo. This is the only game where the Green Shells do not orbit the kart; instead, they are held by the racers. Triple Green Shells can be stolen by racers either using a Mushroom or, if in co-op, with a slide attack. Similar to Triple Mushrooms and Triple Red Shells, characters can either hold these items in a stack or juggle them. If drivers holding two or more shells get hit, then they will drop all but one shell.

Triple Green Shells return in Mario Kart DS, behaving the same as in past games. They can be obtained as uncommon items in second through fifth place in Grand Prix and local VS modes, and can also be collected by mediocre and poorly-performing players in Battle Mode; however, they are absent in online VS mode.

Triple Green Shells return in Mario Kart Wii, behaving exactly the same as in previous games. They can be obtained as uncommon items in second through sixth place in Grand Prix and VS modes; in Battle Mode, they are usually obtained by mediocre-performing players. The best chance of getting this item is in 3rd place, with a 12.5 percent (5 out of 40) chance of getting it in said position. If the player currently has a Triple Green Shell, they are unable to obtain a Triple Banana or Triple Red Shell and vice versa.

Triple Green Shells return in Mario Kart 7, behaving exactly the same as in past games. In Grand Prix and VS modes, they can usually only be obtained in second through fifth place, though sometimes CPUs can obtain them as low as seventh place; in Battle Mode, human players can only obtain Triple Green Shells at or near first place, though CPUs have a fixed probability in obtaining them.

Triple Green Shells return in Mario Kart 8 and Mario Kart 8 Deluxe, functioning as in past appearances. In Grand Prix and VS modes, all players may obtain Triple Green Shells roughly 1000-3500 units from the frontrunner; in Battle Mode, they can be obtained at any point, though they are much more common when the player has only one balloon left at any point in the game.

In Mario Kart Tour, Triple Green Shells are special items obtainable only by Koopa Troopa, Dry Bones, Iggy, Lakitu, Green Shy Guy, Green Toad (Pit Crew), Koopa (Freerunning), and the Green, Dry Bones and Iggy Mii Racing Suits. They function mostly the same, except that they are all fired at once in rapid succession once the player taps the screen. When Triple Green Shells+ is active, the player has a higher chance of getting Triple Green Shells, and they rotate around the kart faster.