Turning Floors are continually moving objects that appear in Super Mario platformers. They are large, circular or semicircular platforms that turn clockwise or counterclockwise, moving anything on them as they do so.

In Mario Kart DS, Bowser Castle has a Turning Floor that periodically changes direction.

Hollow Turning Floors appear in Mario Kart 7. There is one before the underwater area in Bowser's Castle; racers can pass through it, or use an alternate path to drive on top. After the start of the third section of Rainbow Road, there is a Turning Floor with Dash Panels and Glide Ramps inside.

In Mario Kart Tour, one or more Turning Floors appear on 3DS Bowser's Castle and all its variants, 3DS Rainbow Road as well as its R variant, and Yoshi's Island T. The ones on Yoshi's Island T are the same as the ones on 3DS Bowser's Castle.

3DS Rainbow Road returns in Mario Kart 8 Deluxe as part of the Booster Course Pass, and its Turning Floor also reappears as well.

New Super Mario Bros. Wii features Turning Floors of various sizes in World 1-1, World 1-6, World 6-2, World 6-Airship, and World 8-2. They are partly embedded in the ground or overlapped with other Turning Floors. Often, there are rows of coins or Dash Coins that move along with them, and in common instances they also carry enemies such as Goombas, Paragoombas, Hefty Goombas, and Spike Balls. Their function is a pun referencing rolling hills.
Through hacking methods, it is shown that Turning Floors lack collision from the bottom, and that jumping to the center of one of them will warp the player atop it. This feat can be performed in-game in World 1-6.

Turning Floors reappear in New Super Mario Bros. U, New Super Luigi U, and New Super Mario Bros. U Deluxe, acting in much the same way as previously. They are encountered in the levels Yoshi Hill and Blooming Lakitus in the former, and in Rolling Yoshi Hills and Spinning Sandstones in the latter.
Icy Turning Floors also appear in the New Super Mario Bros. U level Prickly Goombas! and its New Super Luigi U counterpart, Fire and Ice.

In Super Mario 3D World, Turning Floors are most notably seen in Really Rolling Hills and its World Mushroom counterpart, where Skipsqueaks and Spiny Skipsqueaks will run opposite to the direction the Turning Floor is moving, keeping themselves centered on the platform. Other entities, such as Galoombas and items summoned from the item storage, will also move in the direction of the Turning Floor if they remain stationary. 
Mario and other characters can progress by walking or running in the opposite direction, jumping forwards, or many times simply avoiding the platform altogether. However, fully circular, mandatory Turning Floors appear in Rainbow Run, along with Skipsqueaks. The direction and speed of Turning Floors varies greatly. Skipsqueaks do not appear to change their running speed to account for this, yet still appear on the center of the platform.
A very large, circular Turning Floor appears in the twenty-sixth room of Mystery House Marathon, where the character must stay on top of it as it moves to reach the Green Star at the end. Its design appears to be styled after Cookie Cogworks.
In the Bowser's Fury campaign of Super Mario 3D World + Bowser's Fury, hollow Turning Floors appear in Slipskate Slope, in segmented sections that move left and right. While Skipsqueaks are found on top of these platforms, inside are spikes that Mario must carefully avoid being pushed into while in an Ice Skate.

Turning Floors appear in all versions of Captain Toad: Treasure Tracker, appearing only in the level Rolling Inferno. They may be colored blue or green, but this is merely an aesthetic change, as their direction of rotation is indicated by chevron arrows imprinted on them. In part due to Captain Toad's inability to jump, once the player crosses a Turning Floor, they cannot move against it.