Twisty Trials Galaxy is a galaxy appearing in the game Super Mario Galaxy 2, located in World S. The galaxy is heavily based on the Episode 4 mission The Secret of Ricco Tower from Ricco Harbor in Super Mario Sunshine. The only major changes are that there is now a single Cloud Flower in the first mission, Yoshi in the second, and some of the spinning logs are larger. The background uses sprites from Super Mario Bros., similar to what the original version of this course did. There are no enemies in this course.

The player will land on a still platform right before the twisting blocks. The first area consists of four slow moving blocks in a linear fashion, with little increase or decrease in slope. There is a Cloud Flower located on the third spinning log right near the beginning of the course and can be used help the player through the rest of the mission.

This area consists of three gears that spin back and forth. If Mario slides off the edge of one, he will lose a life. It is helpful to have the Cloud Flower to get past this area, although it is not necessary.

This area consists of four more rotating blocks, which are now at crooked angles. The Comet Medal for this area is on the third block. After the final block, there is a platform with the Power Star on it.

This area is only found in the second mission, located after the first set of blocks. These blocks are arranged in the same manner as the starting area, but are turning at a faster rate than those found in the starting area of the mission.

The first Green Star is located far away from the first few spinning blocks. The player must grab the Cloud Flower in order to reach it. From the third block, the player should long jump eastward of it and create a cloud. The player should aim and use the last two clouds to carefully hop along to the star.

The final Green Star is located eastward of the second set of spinning blocks. In order to reach this one, the player has to have the Cloud Flower and at least one remaining cloud. Once there, the player should adjust the camera angle so they can see the Green Star. The player should long jump off the first spinning block and use a cloud, and continue long jumping towards the star.