Ty-foos are cloud enemies that first appear in Super Mario 3D World. They are large Fwooshes with black and yellow eyes and large purple lips that blow strong gusts of winds that push away players and certain objects. Their name is a pun on "typhoon," which is a name given to a violent tropical hurricane, and "Foo," a smaller cloud enemy that exhales clouds rather than wind. Due to their massive size, they tend to be among the largest enemies in the games they appear in.

In Super Mario 3D World and its Nintendo Switch port, Ty-foos appear in only two levels: Ty-Foo Flurries and Gigantic Seasick Wreck. Ty-foos function more as obstacles instead of enemies, even though players will take damage if they make contact with them. Their gusts of winds can push projectiles, such as Fire Flower fireballs, in the opposite direction, usually into another obstacle such as spikes or a pit. Heavy enemies such as Bullies are unaffected by the Ty-foos' gust. Most Ty-foos are stationary, but some can move left and right while blowing. They can be stunned with fireballs and boomerangs, but Ty-foos can be defeated only by Invincible Mario, White Tanooki Mario, Mega Mario, or Lucky Cat Mario, though the player may lose a life because they float over bottomless pits.

In Super Mario Odyssey, Ty-foos appear as enemies in the Snow Kingdom, where they wear Santa hats. Mario can capture them with Cappy, but only after first knocking off the hat. Ty-foo float in place, swapping between staying idle and blowing wind, but can sometimes be seen rotating as they blow. Their wind is capable of pushing enemies and certain platforms. Both Mario and Cappy can be pushed by wind, though the latter has to be flying. Jumping on a Ty-foo is ineffective. When Mario captures a Tyfoo, he can use those their powerful Exhale for his own purposes with  or . Shaking the Joy-Con causes Mario to blow harder. While blowing, Mario is unable to move but can change directions, as is true of regular Ty-Foo. Ty-foo are unable to change elevation, a trait that can let Mario float across gaps but also hinder him if a Ty-foo is contained with a small space or is not at the correct elevation for a given task. (Technically Ty-foo can move into slopes to get pushed up but they cannot get far and they slide back to their set elevation once movement stops.)

In the premade world for the Super Mario Mash-up in Minecraft, 3D pixel art Ty-foos can be found in the snowy area.

Ty-foos are obstacles in Ridgerock Lake and Blustery Basin in Mario Golf: Super Rush. They periodically blow wind, which can affect the trajectories of the player's balls.

Ty-foos appear in Super Mario Party Jamboree in a Giant Bowser minigame with cannons and Cold Front.