The Ultra Hammer is the strongest variation of the hammer weapon in various Super Mario role-playing games.

The item first appeared in Super Mario RPG: Legend of the Seven Stars and its Nintendo Switch remake. In this game, the Ultra Hammer is Mario's second most powerful weapon, being beaten by the Lazy Shell. It is found in the Weapon World inside a treasure box, shortly before fighting Count Down. In the official artwork for the Ultra Hammer, the hammerhead has metal linings on each end and has the word "ULTRA", in red, at the side.

In Paper Mario and Paper Mario: The Thousand-Year Door, the Ultra Hammer is Mario's strongest hammer. Upon being collected, it replaces the Super Hammer. In battle, a timed Ultra Hammer attack deals six points of damage to a defenseless enemy without attack-raising badges (while Mario's normal hammer only delivers two, and his Super Hammer only delivers four).

In Paper Mario, the Ultra Hammer is found within the caverns of Mt. Lavalava, and allows Mario to smash Metal Blocks. This new ability allows him and Kolorado to delve deeper into the volcano and eventually face the Lava Piranha. It can also be used to flip hidden panels on the ground just like the Super Boots, revealing Star Pieces from underneath.

In Paper Mario: The Thousand-Year Door, the Ultra Hammer is found inside a chest placed on a high platform in Rogueport's plaza that Mario must use the Spring Jump to dislodge it from underneath. This Ultra Hammer has been downgraded somewhat from the previous game in that it can only destroy Stone Blocks at the most and cannot reveal Star Pieces in the ground.
Like the Super Hammer, the Ultra Hammer can be used to perform a spinning hammer swing, also known as Ultra Hammer, which is capable of destroying Big Stone Blocks, in addition to the Big Yellow Blocks that the Super Hammer can destroy. It can also be used to get the First Strike on enemies, allowing Mario to start the battle with an Ultra Hammer attack without using any Flower Points. The Ultra Hammer attack in battles costs 4 FP and similarly acts as a stronger variant of the Super Hammer move.

In Mario & Luigi: Superstar Saga and its 3DS remake, Mario & Luigi: Superstar Saga + Bowser's Minions, the Ultra Hammer is the third and last Hammer upgrade Mario and Luigi receive. After being tasked by Bowletta with going to Joke's End so the brothers can give her the revived Beanstar, Mario and Luigi can return to the Hammerhead Bros. in their cave in eastern Beanbean Fields, who have mastered a "brand-spankin' new hammer makin' technique". The two then continue to reforge Mario and Luigi's Super Hammers into Ultra Hammers using their new technique.
With them, they can break Black Rocks on the field (golden rocks in the remake), most notably giving the duo access to Surfing Spots on the shoreline of Oho Ocean, which are needed to reach their next destination, Joke's End. They also gain access to the second room behind the Hammerhead Bros.' cave, allowing them to have the chance to win the Secret Scroll 2, and with it, the new Bros. Attack, Cyclone Bros. by playing a minigame hosted by a Thwomp. Unlike the Ultra Hammers in the Paper Mario series, these hammers are not any stronger in battle in the original game, but they give higher damage variance. They also lack the red stripe.