An unshelled Koopa (or Unshelled Koopa), also known as an Unshelled Koopa Troopa, Beach Koopa, Koopa without a Shell, or Shell-less Koopa Troopa, is a Koopa Troopa that has lost its shell and wears nothing more than an undershirt (and/or, in some cases, boxer shorts), first appearing in Super Mario World. In their original appearance, unshelled Koopas appear small and hunched over, but they were later depicted as being able to walk around like normal, shell-wearing Koopa Troopas. In many of the Super Mario platformers, when an unshelled Koopa finds a shell, it reverts to a normal Koopa Troopa.

While technically not shell-less Koopas, in the original arcade version of Mario Bros., if the Shellcreepers are left alone, not attacked, while they are upside down, they will pop out from their shells to flip back their shells. When this happens, they highly resemble shell-less Koopas, wearing a sleeveless white shirt and shorts.

When first knocked out of its shell, a Koopa is extremely vulnerable. If given enough time, it will right itself and pace forwards in search of a new shell. Unshelled Koopas act very similarly to their shelled counterparts: Green ones fall off cliffs, while red ones and the slightly faster blue ones try to avoid falling; the yellow ones act like a quicker green one, but they will also follow Mario or Luigi and attempt to jump over shells thrown at them. The technical reason for the small, hunched-over appearance is so the "sliding out" graphics have the same hitbox parameters as the walking sprites, as each sprite for each individual object in Super Mario World must use the same hitbox. 
Green and red unshelled Koopas will become the color of the shell they enter. If the shell is upside down, they will kick it rightside up before entering. Yellow unshelled Koopas will attempt to jump into any nearby shell; once it enters a shell, it will become a flashing Shell, which will flash rainbow colors and spin around after Mario or Luigi. If two unshelled Koopas enter the same shell simultaneously, they will become only one Koopa Troopa.
Blue unshelled Koopas are visually distinctive, with larger bodies and a lack of vulnerability upon being removed from their shells. Instead of reentering them, they will kick any shell they come into contact with, even stopping moving ones thrown at them; they will also do the same with stunned Goombas, Bob-ombs, flashing Grab Blocks, and Buzzy Beetle shells in their path. In Super Mario World: Super Mario Advance 2, this also allows them to withstand enemies spat at them by Yoshi while Luigi is riding him. Their behavior is similar to Buster Beetles from Super Mario Bros. 3 and Outmaways from Super Mario Bros. Wonder, which both attack by launching blocks at the player. Blue unshelled Koopas may also appear while sliding down slopes towards Mario or Luigi. Any Super Koopa who begins on the ground will revert into a blue unshelled Koopa after being stomped on, and ones with flashing capes also relinquish a Cape Feather. 
The original artwork of a Koopa being knocked out of its shell serves as the basis for a similar artwork that appears as a stamp in Super Mario 3D World.

In Super Mario 64 and Super Mario 64 DS, Mario, Yoshi, Luigi, and Wario can attack a Koopa Troopa to knock it out of its shell, transforming the Koopa Troopa into an unshelled Koopa. Attacking the unshelled Koopa defeats it and releases a Blue Coin. If not defeated, the unshelled Koopa will frantically attempt to dive back into its shell—this occurs even if one of the player characters is riding it, typically resulting in the unshelled Koopa's defeat. Even after the shell is destroyed, the unshelled Koopa will run aimlessly as if it never lost its shell.

In Super Mario Sunshine, Blue Electrokoopas throw their shell at Mario, effectively becoming "unshelled Koopas" temporarily. Mario can defeat these Electrokoopas by jumping on them after they throw their shell, giving him one Coin; he can also squirt them with water, stunning the Electrokoopa and electrifying it with its own returning shell, giving Mario four Coins instead. These Koopas have pink boxer shorts.

Unshelled Koopas reappear in Super Mario 3D World and its Nintendo Switch port. Unlike in other games, they share the same behavior as regular Koopa Troopas in the game, except they have an angry look. If the player keeps them away from their shells long enough or throws the shells away, they will become disappointed and briefly stop chasing the player.

In Super Mario Maker and Super Mario Maker for Nintendo 3DS, unshelled Koopas appear after they are knocked out of their shells in the Super Mario World game style. Red unshelled Koopas make their first appearance since Yoshi's Island DS, only appearing if a Red Koopa Troopa in the level is stomped on.
In Super Mario Maker 2, the above is also true of the Super Mario 3D World game style; red unshelled Koopas make their first 3D appearance. Unshelled Koopas can also drive Koopa Troopa Cars in the Super Mario 3D World style; after defeating them, the player can then drive the car themselves. If a small, unshelled Koopa enters a big, empty shell, it will become a Big Koopa Troopa, with that color of shell; the reverse will happen if a big, unshelled Koopa enters a small, empty shell.

Only one unshelled Koopa appears in the Super Mario World episode "Fire Sale", where the silent Koopa Troopa henchman of Kootie Pie Koopa is continually knocked out of his shell. He wears yellow shorts with red hearts on them.

Although normal unshelled Koopas do not appear in the MS-DOS version of Mario is Missing!, the ending features Luigi removing Bowser's shell. When he does so, Bowser is shown to be wearing polka-dotted boxer shorts, similar to an unshelled Koopa. In the NES version, a normal unshelled Koopa appears after the small Bowser's defeat.

Beach Koopas are also found in Super Mario World 2: Yoshi's Island and its Game Boy Advance remake. However, in these games, they walk upright when evicted from their shells, instead of becoming small and hunched over, as in Super Mario World. This is due to them not ever sliding, meaning they can have the same hitbox as an ordinary Koopa Troopa. In these games, they are shirtless and wear colored shorts, likely inspiring their name. Additionally, Hookbill the Koopa becomes a Beach Koopa upon defeat.

Unshelled Koopas return in Yoshi's Island DS, retaining their behavior from its predecessor as Yoshi can knock them out of their shells with a stomp. Unshelled Koopas that are not knocked out of their shells only appear in Bessie Bass's Battleship.

Unshelled Koopas make a brief appearance in Paper Mario, when the Fuzzies appearing in Koopa Village steal the local Koopa Troopas' shells. This fate also befalls Kooper, though Mario eventually returns his shell to him.

Unshelled Koopas reappear in Super Princess Peach, appearing as they do in the Yoshi sidescrollers, but with a noticeable smile compared to their other appearances. Like Blindfold Boos, blue Podoboos, and Security Thwomps, they do not appear in the in-game glossary.

Unshelled Koopas also appear in Mario & Luigi: Paper Jam. If the player counterattacks a Koopa Troopa's shell attack with the hammer, it will get knocked out of its shell before it gets back in.

The concept of a shell-less turtle enemy was planned for the original Super Mario Bros. It had the tentative name 「ベア クリーパー」 (Bea Kurīpā, Bare Creeper), and it appears to have held a pointed weapon.