Upshroom Downshroom is a course in Fungi Mines of Super Mario Bros. Wonder. As its name suggests, it prominently features Mushroom Platforms, much of which raise up or down during the course. It is unlocked after clearing Loyal Poplin's House. This course houses two Wonder Seeds and has a difficulty of one star.

The course takes place in a forest filled with Mushroom Platforms, with the player starting on top of a set of three. To the right is a wide Mushroom Platform with a sleeping Goomba below it and three ? Blocks. After a set of pumpkins and a Gamboo stack that rises from the ground is another sleeping Goomba and two ? Blocks next to a Rotating Block, as well as a Hidden Character Block visible to Mario in the ceiling that contains a Drill Mushroom. The ? Block on the right releases a Wow Bud that lowers a set of blue Mushroom Platforms to help the player progress, with a shorter Gamboo stack rising from the ground afterwards. After a downhill gentle slope containing some coins is a section containing two blue Mushroom Platforms, two Wow Buds, and a Big Fire Piranha. There are then some Gamboos including a glowing one that go under a set of red pipes including one where another Big Fire Piranha comes out of. The course follows with a Long ? Block, two short Gamboo stacks, and a wall of pumpkins that has a Wow Bud next to it that raises a blue Mushroom Platform below them. By reaching the top of the pumpkin wall, there is a hidden area that can be accessed using the Drill form with some coins and flower coins inside, as well as a Hidden Character Block visible to Toadette five blocks above the nearby Talking Flower that contains a Super Mushroom/Drill Mushroom. After two blue Mushroom Platforms which have a Big Fire Piranha and a purple Gamboo within them is a red Mushroom Platform before a blue one that can be moved upwards to allow the player to enter a red Warp Pipe next to another sleeping Goomba.
The pipe sends the player to the Checkpoint Flag on top of a set of red Mushroom Platforms with a wide one following that features a ? Block. To the right is a section with blue Mushroom Platforms and pumpkins.
One of the pumpkins is glowing, and contains the course's Wonder Flower. Breaking it reveals the Wonder Flower, and touching it causes "Pumpkin Party" to begin, where Gamboos and Trottin' Piranha Plants start dancing, Mushroom Platforms appear colorful and move rhythmically, and pumpkins appear that bear glowing faces based on Jack O'Goombas. The path ahead also contains Big Piranha Plants that also dance. After making some progress, there will then be pumpkins and moving Mushroom Platforms that lead the player to a vertically-oriented section with Trampolines as well as more pumpkins dancing enemies. After breaking a pumpkin from below, the player ends up in a room contain the Wonder Seed which moves left and right. Collecting it ends the effect and a yellow Warp Pipe appears that takes the player to the area containing the Goal Pole, where pumpkins form a staircase to it, with a stack of three Green Gamboo descending to the left.

During the Wonder Effect, many Talking Flowers say these quotes in a loop: