Upside Dizzy Galaxy is a galaxy in Super Mario Galaxy 2, located in World 5. It is similar to the Rightside Down Galaxy, as it features heavy use of shifts in gravity. The direction of the gravity in this level can change depending on the direction of the arrows that are seen in the background. A similar concept was seen in Bowser's Dark Matter Plant from Super Mario Galaxy. Paragoombas are frequent enemies in this galaxy.

The main planet visited in this galaxy. Its outer part is shaped like a castle, and a Warp Pipe leads to the interior, where the gravity constantly changes. The inside of this planet is a series of corridors and obstacles which must be navigated whilst also watching for the change in gravity.

After using a hidden Orange Warp Pipe, Mario will appear on this planet. It is shaped like a big bowl and is inhabited by a Gearmo, similar in appearance to the platform that appeared in Rightside Down Galaxy's mission, The Great Crate Incinerator, earlier in the game.

The first Green Star is found on the Starting Planet, about halfway up the course. It is hidden to the left in the blue region, near two moving pink regions. In order for the player to obtain the star, they must jump down the pink to fly upwards, and with the right time, they will land in the moving pink to continue their flight upwards, landing onto the star.

The second Green Star is located just a little past the first Green Star in the Starting Planet. It is in the top corner of the blue region. The player must  climb on top of the platform that is above the moving pink region, and wait for the pink region to move to the far right to be in range of the Green Star. Now the player must simply Wall Jump or Backflip to obtain the star. Page 201 of the Prima Guide of Super Mario Galaxy 2 has an early location of this Green Star and Green Star 1. In the guide, it shows that the location of this Green Star is actually in the location of Green Star 1, while Green Star 2 is at the end of the course, below the Power Star.