Vector the Crocodile is a character from the Sonic the Hedgehog series. He is the loud-mouthed leader of the Chaotix Detective Agency, which he runs with his friends Espio and Charmy. Vector made his first game appearance in Knuckles' Chaotix, becoming a recurring character ever since being brought back for Sonic Heroes. In the Super Mario franchise, Vector appears throughout the Mario & Sonic series as a playable character of the Power type.

Vector appears in Mario & Sonic at the Olympic Games. As a Power type character, he can excel in any event that requires strength possessing the second highest power in the game, but he is more difficult to use in running events as a consequence: he's tied with Waluigi for the second worst speed in the game, and his skill is low, tied with both Bowser and Knuckles. His stamina is also tied with Bowser, only losing to Wario. He also has his own swimming stroke, called the Crocodile Paddle. His main rival is Bowser, whom he has to beat in the Mission Mode in both the Wii and DS version. Clearing all the mission will award the player with the Vector Emblem, while getting a Gold Medal in every Event with him will unlock the Vector Crown.
Vector's missions in the game are as follows:
Wii version:

DS version:

Vector returns as a playable Power type character in Mario & Sonic at the Olympic Winter Games. He also gains two new special abilities: When using the Head Slide, Vector falls down on his stomach head-first and moves like a swimming crocodile to accelerate or break through obstacles. Exclusive to the Rocket Ski Jump event in the DS version, Vector can blow up his Gum Balloon to use air streams to his advantage and move at a faster pace. In the Wii version, the Vector Emblem can be unlocked by earning a Gold Medal in every event with him, while in the DS version it is rewarded if the player clears ten missions in Adventure Tours with Vector. A Vector suit for the player's Mii can be bought in the Christmas Village, giving the Mii Vector's stats.
In the Adventure Tours mode in the Nintendo DS version, Vector is first mentioned in Cubyrinth when Charmy refuses to open a gate unless they bring his friend with them. Later in Icepeak, Vector is seen next to a mission sign and becomes irritated when Toad calls for him loudly. Upon seeing Mario and Sonic, he greets the gang and becomes curious about Donkey Kong. After a short conversation about music, Vector asks Donkey Kong for a Short Track 500m race to honor their first meeting. After losing to the ape, Vector admits the Chaotix actually came to do research about the mysterious Whitestones, but he got caught up in training for his favorite event. He then decides to join the group on their adventure to have an alibi in front of his two colleagues. He also shamefully remembers having abandoned Charmy in Cubyrinth, so he asks them to head there next.
On their way, they meet Espio, whom Toad tells about Vector's performance on the Short Track 500m event, breaking his secret. Espio is angry at Vector for neglecting his duties, but is willing to finish their research alone. Back in Cubyrinth, Charmy is still guarding the gate and Vector feels sorry for him, but quickly gets mad when the bee refuses to open, believing Vector might be an imposter due to not remembering the password. However, Vector then recalls they did not agree on a password, but on a quiz about the Olympic Games, which triggers Vector's minigame "Quiz Time". After answering five questions right within 45 seconds, Charmy is finally persuaded and opens the gate, happy to see his friend again. 
With his colleagues handling the Whitestones investigation, Vector tags along with the others and later cheers on Mario and Sonic during their final confrontation with Dr. Eggman and Bowser. Afterwards, the group decides to continue their adventure together and Vector dares to beat everyone in the Olympic events.

Vector returns as a playable Power-type character in the Wii version of Mario & Sonic at the London 2012 Olympic Games where he appears in the opening competing in Canoe Sprint 1000m and Beach Volleyball. The Mii outfit based on Vector returns, and Vector appears as a character that can be spoken to in London Party mode. When spoken to, he will either trigger a Point-Based Shell Showdown! to award some London Eye stickers his detective agency was paid with or a 2-on-2 Tablet Tussle! to return a Rosetta Stone replica to the British Museum for Vector stickers.
In the Nintendo 3DS version of the game, Vector is included in the Wild Ones group, meaning that he is only playable in certain Events. In the story mode, Vector first appears chasing Bowser at Horse Guards Parade with Knuckles, and challenges him to an Olympic Event when Sonic arrives. When Bowser is defeated, Knuckles clears the Phantasmal Fog from the area and stays behind with Vector to interrogate Bowser, although it later turns out that it was only a hologram of Bowser. Vector later calls Mario, Luigi, Sonic and Tails when they face Bowser and Dr. Eggman to offer them support, and appears at the opening ceremony. Vector also appears in the bonus episode The Life of a Minion, where he is tricked into competing with Bowser by some of his minions and ultimately loses the event. A badge of Vector can also be obtained from the badge machine.

Vector appears again in Mario & Sonic at the Sochi 2014 Olympic Winter Games, returning as a Power type character. While his Head Slide ability does not return here, he gets a new unnamed Special Boost where he spins around his own axis in midair head-first, his movement resembling a drill. Vector also has two special winning animations with Knuckles and Donkey Kong.
In Legends Showdown mode, where the cast of playable characters join forces to win the Legends Trophy, Vector teams up with Daisy, Luigi and Shadow to take on area 3 of the mysterious castle and retrieve the yellow key. Upon arriving at the castle grounds, mysterious doppelgangers emerge from their shadows, challenging them to multiple events and retreating to higher platforms after each of the team's victory, before disappearing altogether. As Vector and the others finally reach the gate, however, the yellow key starts glowing and summons Jet. After beating him in Snowboard Parallel Giant Slalom, they finally get the key and move on. Meeting up with the other teams at the top of the castle, Vector and the others are finally ready to retrieve the Legends Trophy, but suddenly Eggman Nega, Dry Bowser and Rouge appear, ready to steal both the keys and the prize for themselves. Vector and the others manage to beat them in the final event, Winter Sports Champion Race, and then start to celebrate as the Legends Trophy is finally unlocked from its cage.

Vector appears again in Mario & Sonic at the Rio 2016 Olympic Games as a playable Power type character in the Wii U and 3DS versions as well as in the Arcade Edition of the game. In the 3DS version, he is exclusive to the Table Tennis and Golf events and its Plus event counterparts.

Vector returns as a playable character in Mario & Sonic at the Olympic Games Tokyo 2020, where, like several other characters, he wears appropriate sporting clothing depending on the event.
He also appears in the arcade version, where he is a Power-type character and was added on September 3, 2020. Here, he has great power, as well as average speed and technique.

In Super Smash Bros. Ultimate, Vector, Espio, and Charmy all appear together as a spirit under their collective name "Chaotix".