Villager (referred to as Animal Crossing Boy in his Super Smash Bros. Brawl trophy description) is the player's avatar and main character in the Animal Crossing series. Animal Crossing Villagers have made some crossover appearances in the Super Mario franchise.

The villager's first appearance in the Super Mario franchise is in the Animal Crossing: Wild World microgame in WarioWare: Smooth Moves, in which the objective is for the player to catch a fish. The villager seen in this game, however, is not based on any specific villager artwork in the Animal Crossing franchise. This microgame returns in WarioWare Gold.
In WarioWare: Move It!, a villager appears in the Animal Crossing: New Horizons microgame, based on the game of the same name.

In Super Smash Bros. Brawl, a villager occasionally appears in the background of the Smashville stage. The Animal Crossing villager was at one point planned to be a playable fighter, but was removed because the developers did not consider him to be suited for battle.

Villager appears as a playable character in Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS and Super Smash Bros. for Wii U. The default Villager takes his appearance from the cover art of Animal Crossing: City Folk. Unlike most characters, the Villager has seven alternate costumes based upon various villager designs, four male (including the default appearance) and four female. Villager is a middleweight fighter, having the same weight as Luigi and the lightest possible Mii Fighters, while being lighter than Mario, Dr. Mario, and Corrin and heavier than Pit, Wii Fit Trainer, and Dark Pit. Additionally, the villagers that appear on Smashville in Super Smash Bros. Brawl also return in this game along with the stage.
Villager's moves are mostly based around the Animal Crossing series, such as using a shovel to bury opponents as their down smash attack, firing a slingshot as their forward and back aerial attacks, and using a net for their grab. Villager's standard special move is Pocket, which allows them to grab any items or projectiles and store them for future use. Their side special is Lloid Rocket, which summons a Gyroid that flies forward into opponents and explodes. Their down special is Timber, which causes them to plant a tree that they can cut down to have it fall on opponents. Finally, Villager's up special is Balloon Trip, in which they use a pair of balloons to fly upward that can be popped, based upon the game Balloon Fight. The Villager's Final Smash is Dream Home (Housewarming Party in PAL versions), in which Tom Nook and Timmy and Tommy appear and build a house around opponents that explodes.

Villager is an unlockable playable fighter in Super Smash Bros. Ultimate. Players can now see what the Villager has pocketed over the HUD icon on the bottom of the screen. Additionally, Villager can now pocket items with their net grab. Other than this, Villager's moveset is largely unchanged.
Villager benefits from the game's universal changes: their mobility is faster; their aerial attacks have less landing lag; their short hop timing is reduced; they can directionally air dodge; and they can use any grounded attack out of a run and use any of their aerials while on ladders. Villager remains a middleweight, now having the same weight as Ice Climbers, Lucario, Wolf, Steve, and Mythra, while being lighter than Joker and heavier than Toon Link and Palutena.
The male Villager cameos alongside Bowser Jr. and King K. Rool in the reveal trailer for Ken Masters and Incineroar, where he is shown wanting to challenge the latter over the former's defeat, much to Incineroar's chagrin.
On a side note, along with several other characters, Villager uses a sped-up version of their victory theme from the previous game.

The Villager appears in Mario Kart 8 as a downloadable character, available for purchase as part of the Animal Crossing × Mario Kart 8 DLC pack as one of the two playable Animal Crossing characters, with the other being Isabelle. Like with Super Smash Bros., both a male and female villager variant are available, both based upon the boy and girl villager artwork from Animal Crossing: New Leaf. Their kart symbol is the leaf symbol that represents furniture in the Animal Crossing series as well as the series in general. Their horn sound is the "show off" sound effect from their home series.
The male Villager shares his stats with Tanooki Mario, while the female Villager shares her stats with Cat Peach. The Villager is the only character in Mario Kart 8 and its port that does not have a voice; instead, they use many sound effects from the Animal Crossing series.
Both Villagers return as playable characters in Mario Kart 8 Deluxe for the Nintendo Switch. When the game was first released, they took up separate locations on the character select screen (and therefore are treated as separate characters, though they are both referred to as "Villager" despite this), and are included within the base game. However, as with the Inklings, they now share a spot as of Wave 6 of the Booster Course Pass, much like the Wii U game. Both Villagers remain middleweight characters; the male shares statistics with Tanooki Mario and Inkling Boy, while the female is among the lightest middleweights, alongside Cat Peach, Inkling Girl, and Diddy Kong.

In Super Mario Maker, players can unlock an 8-bit Villager costume either at random by completing the 100 Mario Challenge on Expert or Super Expert mode, in which there is no costume unlocking criteria, or by scanning a compatible Villager amiibo using the GamePad. The costume is exclusive to the Super Mario Bros. style and can be placed within Mystery Mushrooms. It can be donned by Mario once he acquires one of these mushrooms, thusly borrowing the character's appearance, movements, and specific sound effects. If button  is pressed and held while the character is idle, he pulls out a small red balloon. If the character loses a life whilst wearing the Villager costume, the usual death jingle is replaced with the theme that plays after fainting in Animal Crossing: New Leaf. The Villager costume is designed after his appearance in Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS / Wii U.