Waluigi is a character debuting in Mario Tennis. He is the lanky rival of Luigi and a partner of Wario. Since his introduction, Waluigi has been playable only in spinoff games of the Super Mario franchise. He was voiced by Charles Martinet from his debut to Mario Strikers: Battle League, after which he was replaced by Kevin Afghani in Super Mario Party Jamboree. His name is a portmanteau of the Japanese words warui, meaning "bad", and Ruīji, meaning "Luigi".
Waluigi was originally conceptualized as Wario's brother and referred to as such in some early material. However, later sources have instead described them merely as partners, including the Mario & Sonic series containing several explicit statements that the two are unrelated.

During the development of Mario Tennis, the game had many classic Super Mario characters, but few were humans, and Wario did not have a partner for doubles. To this end, designer Fumihide Aoki came up with the idea to make a rival for Luigi. Shigeru Miyamoto was consulted in order to help with the design. Among the development team, names like "Jeroji", "Jinani", and "Waigi" popped up, until it was decided that the name would be "Waruīji", a portmanteau of the words "warui" (bad or evil) and "Ruīji" (Luigi). It was also decided that the character would be the extreme to Luigi's height and lean body, just as Wario is the extreme to Mario's round and short body. According to Shugo Takahashi, Yoichi Kotabe put on the finishing touches for Waluigi's final design.
During Waluigi's development, Camelot also had the proposition of designing a Wario version of Princess Peach, but this idea was dismissed by Nintendo for not being cute enough. A Wario version of Princess Daisy was suggested in turn, but was also turned down. Aoki later revisited the "Walpeach" concept for Mario Power Tennis, only for his design to be rejected again due to a lack of characters to pair her with.
A September 2000 English edition of Nintendo Power introduces Waluigi and the online game Waluigi's Toenail Clipping Party:

He's lean, he's mean, he hates the color green! Yes, with hopes of finally overthrowing Mario's supreme reign as the video game king, Wario has enlisted the help of Waluigi. The big fellow with a nasty smirk and burning hatred of good, ol' Luigi finally shows his ugly mug in Mario Tennis, and to mark the momentous occasion we're giving the purple one his very own website! You can check out www.waluigi.com for all your evil sidekick needs: photos, secret information, and all the wacky hijinks you could ever desire. Were looking to have online games, too, including Waluigi's Toenail Clipping Party. It seems that everyone's favorite mustachioed mischief maker has let his personal grooming go, and it's up to you to help him. Clip those nails good, and be sure to aim for the jar, or you'll be left with ragged clippings and toe jam all over your hard drive. Eewwww!
The section also claims: "He's so bad, he sold Luigi's underwear on EBay.[sic] Which raises an interesting question… who bought the stuff?"

Waluigi is first seen in the opening of Mario Tennis. He and Wario lurk on the sidelines, watching as the participants are introduced in a tournament. They proceed to interrupt the final match between Mario and Luigi. A fight between Waluigi and Luigi occurs when the Mario Bros. do not allow him and Wario to participate. Waluigi and Wario are knocked to the ground by Bowser, after falling from above with a Boo. A Bob-omb explodes in the stadium soon after, affecting Waluigi and the others. In gameplay, Waluigi is billed a Technique player, giving him good control over the ball; his reach is above average but his power and movement speed are low. Waluigi's eyes flash whenever he scores a point.
Waluigi is an unlockable playable character in the handheld version. He is billed a Technique player. Waluigi is unlocked only from using a Transfer Pak is used, a method not usable in the Nintendo 3DS Virtual Console release. In the Two-on-One minigame, the player as Bowser plays against Wario and Waluigi. Waluigi is also playable in his own minigame, playing against Luigi.

Waluigi is first seen in the start-up of Mario Power Tennis, holding a sign with the Camelot logo, followed by the opening scene. He and Wario lose a doubles match to Mario and Luigi, and later notice from a tournament scoreboard they have been eliminated. Waluigi and Wario are spotted by the police as they ruin the images of Mario and Luigi on the scoreboard, and a chase ensues. While attempting to hide, Waluigi and Wario enter a door inadvertently leading to Bowser's workout room. After a day of training, Waluigi and Wario interrupt the finals match of the Mario Bros. against Yoshi and Donkey Kong. The two characters throw Bob-ombs at the Mario Bros. while being booed by the audience. Waluigi and Wario bring unleash several Bob-ombs on Peach Dome, the setting of the match, but the four contestants knock them back. Waluigi and Wario's Bob-omb launcher soon malfunctions when a Bullet Bill lands into it and hurls a Bob-omb at Bowser's balloon. A massive explosion occurs, and the balloon crashes on Waluigi and Wario, who faint with Bowser.
As a playable character, Waluigi is billed a Defense player. His reach is great whilst his movement and power are mediocre. Waluigi's Offensive Power Shot is the Whirluigi, a backspin shot interfering with the returner's control, and his Defensive Power Shot is the Swimming Return, creating a pool for Waluigi to swim in to return the ball.

Waluigi returns in Mario Tennis: Power Tour. He has the same traits as in Mario Power Tennis, including his two Power Shots. The game is the only instance of Waluigi being playable without Wario.

Waluigi is a playable character in Mario Tennis Open. He is a Defense player. Waluigi's winning animation depicts him with flashing eyes.

Waluigi returns in Mario Tennis: Ultra Smash. He is the exact same as in Mario Tennis Open.

Waluigi is a playable character in Mario Tennis Aces. He is depicted with a unique tennis outfit. Waluigi retains his classification of being a defensive player. He was unlockable in the online tournament demo, after getting at least 100 points. For his Special Shot, "Showtime," Waluigi sticks a rose between his teeth, pirouettes a few times, and hits the ball. Waluigi's Trick Shot is titled "Moonwalk." His forward and backward Trick Shot, "Twisted Jump," involves jumping in front of the ball. A costume of Waluigi with his normal overalls can be unlocked by earning 1000 participation points in the July 2019 or January 2020 online tournaments. 
Waluigi appears in Adventure Mode. He and Wario steal Lucien from a golden chest in the intro cutscene, having heard of the its legendary power. Waluigi fights with Wario over the racket, but both are electrocuted by it. Waluigi and Wario enter the Marina Stadium after Mario and Peach win a tennis match. Before the two can give Lucien as a present to Mario, a dark storm cloud appears and Waluigi becomes possessed by Lucien, as well as Wario and Luigi. Waluigi is fought in a tennis match by Mario and Toad later on, and turns back to normal after losing. Waluigi and Wario later express disappointment after the defeat of Bowcien (a fusion of Bowser and Lucien) that they could not become the most skilled tennis players. The two are then reprimanded by Daisy for stealing Lucien earlier on.

Waluigi is a playable character in every game in the Mario Party series since the third installment, not counting Mario Party Advance. In Mario Party 3, he is not playable in story mode, but he has been fully playable in Mario Party 4 onwards.
Waluigi is an antagonist in the story of Mario Party 3. After clearing the penultimate board, Mario and his friends are ambushed by Bowser, who announces that the protagonists have to fight him for the Mischief Star Stamp. Tumble then realizes the Star Stamp is missing and Waluigi reveals that he has stolen it. Bowser attacks Waluigi for the stamp, but is defeated. Waluigi then challenges the other party members to a duel on his own board, Waluigi's Island. However, once Waluigi is defeated, he forfeits the Star Stamp. He is the only playable character in the game to have a board named after them.
Waluigi appears in a few minigames in Mario Party-e. He drops hammers, coins, and red coins on Mario in Waluigi's Reign; and hits buttons in order as quickly as possible to give Mario less time to stop the bomb in Time Bomb Ticks!. Waluigi is featured on two duel cards, Waluigi and Super Waluigi, both involving dueling player for coin cards and in-play cards, though Super Waluigi costs coin cards.
Waluigi, like the other characters, has unique team names depending on who he is paired with in Mario Party 5, Mario Party 6, Mario Party 8, and Mario Party DS. This includes:

In Mario Party 7, Waluigi shares a character-specific orb with Wario: the Vacuum Orb. By using a roulette, Waluigi can steal other opponents' coins.
In Mario Party 8, Waluigi flaunts a rose for his winning animation. Waluigi's holding a rose is a recurring trait for him in various later appearances including Mario Golf: World Tour, Mario Tennis Aces, Mario Party Superstars, and even as art during Nintendo Minute's Nintendo Switch Lite Blue unboxing video.
In Super Mario Party, Waluigi's Dice Block has one -3 coins, one 1, one 3, two 5's, and one 7. His Dice Block is colored purple. He is also the default host character for the minigame Time to Shine, and he always appears in the minigame either as the host or a participant.
He appears as a playable character in Super Mario Party Jamboree. It is the first game in which he is voiced by Kevin Afghani, following Charles Martinet stepping down from voicing Super Mario characters in 2023. Like Time to Shine in Super Mario Party, Waluigi is the default host for the minigame Copycat Curry.  With the new Jamboree Buddy mechanic, he has his own themed minigame as well, Waluigi's Pinball Arcade. Once unlocked as a buddy, Waluigi will steal 3 to 8 coins from any opponents his ally passes.

Waluigi's introduction in the Super Smash Bros. series is as an unlockable trophy in Super Smash Bros. Melee, unlocked from the Lottery after collecting at least 250 other trophies. It is stated that Waluigi trained a lot prior to the events of Mario Tennis, is the same age as Luigi, and has an unknown relationship to Wario.
Besides appearing as two stickers and a trophy in Super Smash Bros. Brawl, Waluigi is added as an Assist Trophy character, returning as one in Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS / Wii U and Super Smash Bros. Ultimate. When summoned, Waluigi appears with a tennis racket in hand, a nod to his association with the Mario Tennis series. Waluigi kicks his chosen opponent into the ground and finishes up by delivering one final kick or a blow with his tennis racket. The two stickers of Waluigi depict his appearances in Mario Superstar Baseball and Super Mario Strikers, both of which can be equipped only by Super Mario characters and increasing their attack power; the former increases the user's long-ranged special attack by eight, and the latter increases the user's strength of moves which use claws or blades by fifteen. The trophy of Waluigi shows him holding a tennis racket, and the description says his relationship with Wario as unknown and gives vague detail of Waluigi working in the background prior to debuting in Mario Tennis. Waluigi's outfit is the basis of one of Luigi's alternate costumes added in Super Smash Bros. Brawl onward, though the "L" changes from yellow to purple since Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS / Wii U.
Two spirits of Waluigi appear in Super Smash Bros. Ultimate, one depicting his regular look and the other using his artwork from Mario Strikers Charged. The spirit battle for the former has Waluigi appearing as an Assist Trophy enemy and takes place on Peach's Castle, while the latter's spirit battle has the Soccer Ball item rule and takes place on Wuhu Island. Both fights are against Luigi, referencing Waluigi's rivalry with him. Waluigi also appears in the Standard Bike's spirit. Additionally, Mario and Luigi retain their Waluigi-inspired alternate costumes; a pre-release screenshot shows Luigi's costume with a green L on his cap, but in the final game, it is purple like in the previous game.

Waluigi appears in the Modern Boxing and Rain Shower (Hard Mode only) in Game & Watch Gallery 4. Waluigi is the final opponent in Boxing, and performs kicks and elbows to attack. Waluigi moves the lines around in Rain Shower, putting characters in danger of Bowser's water balloons.

Waluigi is first seen in the opening of Mario Golf: Toadstool Tour, spying with Wario on Mario and his friends. The two encounter Yoshi and a Koopa Troopa, challenging them to an exhibition golfing adventure. Waluigi is covered in sand at one point as Wario tries to hit a golf ball out of the bunker zone. Near the hole, Waluigi fails putting the ball into the hole multiple times, boring Yoshi and Koopa, so Waluigi and Wario decide to challenge Donkey Kong and Diddy Kong instead. Waluigi and Wario later make their escape through a yellow Warp Pipe while being chased by Bowser, though encounter him again on the other side. Wario and Waluigi try to escape from Bowser by going through an enormous metal door. Meanwhile, Mario hits his ball with his golf club just as Waluigi is able to open the door. At that moment Mario's ball bounces off Wario and Waluigi, giving them black eyes too, and knocks the Bob-omb off Bowser's hand. The Bob-omb explodes on Wario, Waluigi, and Bowser. There are other animations with Waluigi while he plays golf: if he gets an eagle or birdie, Waluigi jumps and makes several poses, also pirouetting if achieving an eagle; when achieving a par, Waluigi points his hands forwards; if he gets a bogey, Waluigi expresses disappointment; and for a double bogey, Waluigi clenches a fist to his chest and screeches before falling.
Waluigi is a playable character. His shot path is to the right while he can hit the maximum at 209 yards. Waluigi's impact is slightly above average; his spin has relatively average control; and his shot height is medium.

Waluigi is an unlockable character in Mario Golf: Advance Tour. He can be unlocked through transfer from Mario Golf: Toadstool Tour.

Waluigi returns as a playable character in Mario Golf: World Tour. In his eagle animation, Waluigi puts a rose in between his teeth, claps to turn a spotlight on, does several poses, pirouettes, and lastly holds out the rose; a similar animation is used when achieving a birdie, though without the rose. When achieving a par, Waluigi pirouettes. If he receives a bogey, Waluigi yells disappointedly. When achieving a double bogey, Waluigi shows disappointment under a dim spotlight before falling down a hole. Waluigi is seen in the Castle Club's Royal Room, spinning on a leg while holding up his other one. There are unlockable items based on Waluigi, including a purchasable ball and set of clubs for Miis and a costume that becomes availablwe after collecting every Star Coin in the Cheep Cheep Lagoon challenges.

Waluigi is a playable character in Mario Golf: Super Rush. He sports a unique golfing outfit to replace his overalls. Waluigi is billed an All-Around character. He has lower Power and Stamina than Wario, but he has a better Speed than him. His Special Shot is known as the Slim Stinger and his Special Dash is known as the Dance-Off Dash.

Waluigi is a playable character in Mario Kart: Double Dash!!. He is billed a middleweight character. Waluigi is partnered with Wario by default, with both having Bob-omb as their Special Item. Besides having a personal kart, the Waluigi Racer, Waluigi also has a course of his own, Waluigi Stadium, where a likeness of his face appears on a "Waluigi Kart" sign in background.

Waluigi makes a cameo appearance in Mario Kart Arcade GP. He is one of the characters seen in the award ceremony.

Waluigi is an unlockable playable character in Mario Kart DS. He retains a middleweight classification. Waluigi has three personal karts: Standard WL, the Zipper, and the Gold Mantis. Waluigi has another personal course, Waluigi Pinball, and a structure of him appears towards the end. Waluigi is unlocked after completing the Retro Grand Prix in 100cc.

Waluigi is a playable character in Mario Kart Arcade GP 2. He is billed an all-around type. Waluigi has a cup themed around him, the Waluigi Cup, and an icon of Waluigi is depicted on the sign above the Starting Grid in the two courses of the cup, Stadium Arena and Waluigi Stadium.

Waluigi is a playable character in Mario Kart Wii. He is billed as a large character, likely due to him being tall. Waluigi has an acceleration, a drift, and a small off-road bonus. Waluigi's likeness no longer appears in the returning course GCN Waluigi Stadium.

Waluigi does not appear in Mario Kart 7, though DS Waluigi Pinball does, as well as the structure of him in the course.

Waluigi is an unlockable playable character in Mario Kart Arcade GP DX. He is billed a lightweight character, unlike before.

Waluigi is a playable character in Mario Kart 8 and Mario Kart 8 Deluxe. Waluigi is billed a heavyweight. Waluigi is one of the lighter heavyweights, sacrificing some speed and weight for a slight boost in acceleration, handling, and grip; he shares this trait with Donkey Kong and Roy, as well as Rosalina in the original version only. Two classic courses associated with Waluigi, GCN Waluigi Stadium and DS Waluigi Pinball, appear in Booster Course Pass.

Waluigi is a playable character in Mario Kart Tour. He is classified as a Super driver. Waluigi's special skill is the Double Bob-ombs. Both his self-titled courses, GCN Waluigi Stadium and DS Waluigi Pinball, return in this game; the figure of Waluigi in the latter is now a moving cutout. The London Tour introduces a bus driver variant of Waluigi, known as Waluigi (Bus Driver), in which he wears a pair of plaid pants, a matching cap, a white dress shirt, and a striped necktie; his special skill is the Triple Bananas. He also has a vampire-clad variant known as Waluigi (Vampire) that debuted in the 2021 Halloween Tour, whose special skill is the Bob-omb Cannon. Waluigi represented a team during the Team Rally of the Wario vs. Waluigi Tour, and his team won the rally. 

Waluigi is first seen in the opening scene of Mario Superstar Baseball, attempting to reach home plate but failing when Yoshi tags him out. Waluigi appears with Wario in the final cutscene of Challenge mode, arriving at the baseball field at night. Waluigi is a playable character and team captain. He is billed a Technique player. Waluigi's pitching stat is very high, rivaled by only Bowser, and his skills are Super Jump and Laser Beam. Waluigi's Power Shot is the Liar Ball, in which he sends out both an eggplant with a baseball while pitching or batting. He is left-handed while fielding and batting.

Waluigi returns in Mario Super Sluggers. Waluigi has one of the highest pitching and fielding abilities but a very small hitbox while batting. Waluigi's Star Pitch, the Liar Ball, was changed to having Waluigi throw a large baseball that shrinks gradually to normal while traveling toward the batter. Waluigi's Star Swing is the Liar Swing, which makes the baseball travel in a zig-zag path through the air. Waluigi appears in the final cutscene, assisting Wario with putting a Bullet Bill into the cannon used for Bob-omb Derby, but both of them are blast away when the prematurely launched Bullet Bill is batted at them.

Waluigi is an antagonist in Dance Dance Revolution: Mario Mix. He steals the Music Keys from Truffle Tower in hopes of becoming the best dancer. Waluigi keeps only one key for himself, giving the other three to a boss each. Waluigi attacks the player character and Toad with several Bob-ombs after they make it to him, causing the characters to fall down a Warp Pipe. Waluigi only allows the player to have the Music Key if he loses in a dance-off. Once he loses in the dance-off, he is not seen for the rest of the game.

Waluigi is a soccer captain and playable character in every game of the Mario Strikers series. He is billed an offensive player in Super Mario Strikers, making it easier for the Super Strike gauge to land on the light green area whilst less on the dark green. Waluigi is billed a defensive player in Mario Strikers Charged and Mario Strikers: Battle League, so his strongest attributes are his speed and strength whilst having weaker shooting and passing. Waluigi wears a shirt depicting a zero. Waluigi's unique abilities include the Drop Rocket, his Super Strike in Super Mario Strikers; Wall-Luigi! and パープルスパイク (Purple Spike) make up his Super Ability and Mega Strike in Mario Strikers Charged, respectively; and Thorn Barrier, his Hyper Strike in Mario Strikers: Battle League. Robotic Nightmares in Super Mario Strikers are modeled after Waluigi. Waluigi competes against Luigi in the Storm Cup of Mario Strikers Charged, with three or more goals being required to advance.

Waluigi is a playable character in Mario Hoops 3-on-3. He is billed a Technical player. His Special Shot is the Twist Dunk, which has the ball shot at the basket as a cyclone flies behind, followed by Waluigi swimming through the air to dunk it.

Waluigi is a playable character in both the console and handheld versions of Mario & Sonic at the Olympic Games. He is billed a Skill player. In the opening cutscene of the former version, Waluigi is seen at the start with the other athletes.

Waluigi is a playable character in both the console and handheld versions of Mario & Sonic at the Olympic Winter Games. He is billed a Skill player. The opening in the former version shows Waluigi at the start with the other playable characters and later competing Ice Hockey; the same version has an unlockable Mii outfit based on Waluigi. He and Wario appear together in Adventure Tours mode of the handheld version, where they join the party after losing in Snowboard Cross.

Waluigi is a playable character in both the console and handheld versions of Mario & Sonic at the London 2012 Olympic Games. He is billed a Skill player in the former and one of the Tricksters in the latter. Waluigi is seen in the opening scene of the console version, first with all of the athletes and later competing in Track Cycling - Team Pursuit and Football. A Mii outfit of Waluigi also appears in the console version, as well as Waluigi being interactable in London Party mode to play minigames and earn stickers. A badge of Waluigi can be obtained from the badge machine in the handheld version.
In Story mode of the handheld release, Waluigi is first seen testing out some binoculars (which he calls "Waluigiscopes") to try and spy on Luigi. After Waluigi scares away some Shy Guys, Metal Sonic arrives and accidentally breaks the binoculars, and Waluigi challenges him to an event. Waluigi wins, and chases Metal Sonic when he tries to escape, eventually losing him but finding Wario, and the pair decide to find Metal Sonic and Dr. Eggman together. They succeed and defeat them in an event, and Waluigi distracts them while Wario breaks the Fog machine, and the pair then try to get some compensation from Dr. Eggman. Waluigi and Wario later discover that they had been chasing a hologram of Dr. Eggman, and later appear to call Mario, Luigi, Sonic, and Tails when they face Bowser and Dr. Eggman to support the Heroes and remind Dr. Eggman that they want some compensation, as well as later appearing at the opening ceremony. Waluigi also appears in the bonus episode Dr. Eggman's Robots, where Dr. Eggman convinces him to compete in an event against Metal Sonic, which Waluigi loses.

Waluigi is a playable character in Mario & Sonic at the Sochi 2014 Olympic Winter Games. He is billed a Skill player. There is another Mii costume based on Waluigi.

Waluigi is a playable character in the console, arcade, and handheld versions of Mario & Sonic at the Rio 2016 Olympic Games. The console version has a Mii costume based on Waluigi, this time in separate head and body parts, each having different stat alterations. In the handheld version, Waluigi is playable only in Long Jump and BMX events, as well as their Plus versions. The arcade version has Rhythmic Gymnastics and Long Jump as recommended events for Waluigi, also giving him great technique and above average power, but below average speed.

Waluigi is a playable character in Mario & Sonic at the Olympic Games Tokyo 2020, as well as Mario & Sonic at the Olympic Games Tokyo 2020 - Arcade Edition, since an update on March 20, 2020. In the former, Waluigi appears also in the story mode, having to be defeated with Wario before joing the player characters.

Waluigi is a playable character in Mario Sports Mix. He is billed a Technical player. Waluigi throws up to four balls/pucks during his special shot, each worth a point, for up to four points if all are scored. Waluigi's serves in volleyball travel in a straight line only. Waluigi can evade attacks in dodgeball by spinning.

Waluigi is an unlockable costume in Super Mario Maker. It is unlocked by either scanning a Waluigi amiibo or randomly from completing the Super Mario Challenge on any difficulty.

Waluigi is referenced in Super Mario Odyssey. His hat and outfit are unlocked through either scanning his amiibo or collecting enough Power Moons; the outfit description alludes to Waluigi lacking appearances outside of spinoff games.

Waluigi is a playable character in Mario Sports Superstars. He is billed a Technique player in most sports, except tennis, which ranks him a Defensive player. Being a Technique player gives Waluigi the edge in skills such as shot accuracy or horse control. Waluigi has a default drive of 210 yards and shots traveling at regular height in a draw trajectory in golf.

Waluigi is referenced in WarioWare Gold. The player can scan his amiibo in Wario's amiibo Sketch to have a crude drawing of him appear onscreen. This is the only instance of Waluigi appearing in a game starring Wario, despite their partnership in several spinoff games.

Waluigi is an unlockable playable character in Dr. Mario World, as Dr. Waluigi. Dr. Waluigi can be unlocked through the Staffing menu randomly like most of the unlockable doctors, but he can be unlocked after beating World 6's Special Stage since version 1.2.0, though beating the stage prior to the update will allow him to be obtainable through the doc box. His skill in stage mode is to eliminate 10 dust viruses or other objects hidden inside dust clouds. If no dust cloud is present, the skill will instead eliminate a random virus or a random object if no viruses are found. In versus mode, Dr. Waluigi's skill changes 3 viruses (2 viruses prior to version 2.2.0) in the opponent's stage into dust viruses at level 1, while at higher levels it covers more viruses inside dust at 6, 9, 12 and 15 in levels 2 to 5 (4, 6, 8 and 10 respectively prior to version 2.2.0), with the skill charging slightly faster at the highest level.

Waluigi was a recurring character in Wario's Warehouse, a series of articles on the Nintendo of Europe website dealing with various games on Nintendo platforms.
Waluigi takes the place of Mediterranean Avenue in Nintendo Monopoly and costs $60.
In UNO Super Mario, Waluigi is pictured on the 4 card.
Waluigi's outfit appears in Nintendo Land. It is worn by the third Mii player in Luigi's Ghost Mansion.
In the 28th volume of Super Mario-kun, he appears in the Mario Party 3 arc. In the arc, he dresses up as the Millennium Star to scam the group out of their stamps. This works, and he constantly throws Poison Mushrooms to slow them down. Tumble, however, controls Mario with a remote control and knocks Waluigi into his own pile of Poison Mushrooms, getting their stamps back.

Waluigi is a playable skin in the Super Mario Mash-up in Minecraft.
The game Mario + Rabbids Kingdom Battle features a character known as Bwaluigi, a Rabbid dressed as Waluigi, alongside another Rabbid dressed as Wario called Bwario. A figure of Waluigi can also be seen in the game's introductory cutscene.

Waluigi's outfit includes a purple undershirt under usually very dark indigo overalls (which are occasionally pure black), orange shoes, and a purple cap that covers his short, brown hair. He has a large, pink nose, a thin mustache which is straight (horizontal) and pointed up at the edge, and gray eyes, his eyes being surrounded by light blue rings. He also has long limbs and a skinny torso. The yellow symbol on his hat and gloves is a vertical mirror image of Luigi's "L" which forms a "Γ", just as Wario wears a "W" in contrast to Mario's "M". "Γ" is also the Greek letter Gamma, which is pronounced similarly to "G".
Just like his partner, Waluigi is the extreme form of his rival. While Luigi is tall and skinny, Waluigi is taller and skinnier, just as Wario is obese in contrast to Mario. According to the Wario's Warehouse site, Wario routinely puts Waluigi on a rack to make him even taller. Luigi's facial elements are also exaggerated in Waluigi. Waluigi has a very sharp jaw and a pointy chin. Waluigi's sharp, handlebar mustache is an exaggeration of Luigi's soft and fluffy mustache. Many bios describing him in Super Mario sports games mention (and poke fun at) his features, including his sharp jaw, lanky proportions, pointy nose, and flat feet.
Waluigi's clothing also is similar how Mario and Luigi's color scheme is somewhat the same. Mario and Luigi have the similar colored pants, with their signature colors being opposites (red and green). With Wario and Waluigi, the signature colors are still opposites (yellow and purple), and their pants are not exactly matching, but they are a different shade (most of the time) like Mario and Luigi's, as Luigi's pants are just slightly darker. On a side note, Waluigi has appeared wearing black pants at times, which was more common in his earlier appearances.
Waluigi's appearance gets altered in the Super Smash Bros. series. In Super Smash Bros. Brawl, Waluigi has a monotone, realistic appearance which is supported by his overalls featuring denim textures. Waluigi also wears brown shoes instead of his usual orange ones. In Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS and Super Smash Bros. for Wii U, Waluigi's appearance is more vibrant and cartoonish, better resembling his main Super Mario depiction. Waluigi's shoes are also their typical orange color, instead of being brown in the previous game. Waluigi's appearance in Super Smash Bros. Ultimate is essentially a combination of the two, due to wearing his current orange shoes, while retaining a subdued color scheme and detailed overalls from  Super Smash Bros. Brawl, but not to the same extent as said game.
In Super Mario Strikers, Waluigi wears a soccer uniform. His short-sleeve jersey and shorts are purple and black, with some white and purple stripes. His gloves are white and grey. His cleats are also purple and grey with white stripes, and they both include his logo. He also wears purple socks. The jersey also has "Waluigi" on the back, and both the front and back have the number 0 on it. In Mario Strikers Charged, this outfit has additional armor. The jersey is no longer short sleeved, and his gloves are entirely white, and part of them are shaped like cogs. His socks are now grey pieces of armor, and his cleats now have yellow lines and yellow studs. The front of the armor now includes his team icon. In both games' official artwork, Waluigi's midriff is slightly exposed, though in-game this only occurs in Mario Strikers Charged. This makes Waluigi the only male human character in the franchise to have worn a top which exposes the midriff. 
In Mario Tennis Aces, Waluigi has a tennis outfit. This includes a short sleeved, purple polo shirt, dark blue shorts, orange sneakers, purple socks, and a purple visor with his logo on it.
In Mario & Sonic at the Olympic Games Tokyo 2020, Waluigi wears different clothing depending on the event. He can wear a purple top with white stripes, which, depending on the event, may be sleeveless, with black shorts, purple socks, and orange sneakers, a purple, white, and black wetsuit where he is barefooted, a karate gi, be shirtless wearing nothing but black swim trunks, his hat, and his gloves, he can wear a red suit with white pants and tall black boots, or a white outfit with purple stripes where he also wears his orange sneakers, and in certain events his wears his normal outfit.
Waluigi received a High-End variant called Waluigi (Bus Driver) in the London Tour in Mario Kart Tour. In this outfit, Waluigi wears red, white, and green plaid pants and a red and white plaid hat. His shirt is white with grey stripes, and he wears a purple, white, and yellow tie with his icon on it. Finally, his suspenders are now brown, and his shoes are now a dark red. 
Waluigi's outfit is sometimes referenced without directly referencing the character himself. In Paper Mario: The Thousand-Year Door, by wearing both the "L" Emblem (Luigi) and the "W" Emblem (Wario) together, Mario's outfit becomes a purple undershirt and black overalls. The same can be done in Super Smash Bros. Brawl by switching Luigi's costume color, and in Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS / Wii U or Super Smash Bros. Ultimate with both Mario and Luigi.

Like Mario, Luigi, and Wario, Waluigi was portrayed by Charles Martinet from Mario Tennis to Mario Strikers: Battle League, and by Kevin Afghani since Super Mario Party Jamboree. Waluigi speaks with a strong Italian accent, just like the aforementioned characters, though he speaks in a nasal tone. Waluigi, like Wario, is more verbose in the Super Mario games than most other characters, due to consistently speaking in full sentences. Waluigi mostly drops the "-a"s during contractions, as evidenced by several cutscenes in the Super Mario sports titles. However, there are exceptions, such as in Mario Kart Wii, where Waluigi will say "Let's-a go!" or "I'm-a gonna win!" when selecting him. However, there are times where Waluigi's voice acting is limited, in which case, he has in-game text to show what he is saying. In this case, Waluigi speaks intelligibly, but with slang. Waluigi drops the "g"'s in his sentences, or makes use of the word "ain't" on a frequent basis. Waluigi also has a habit of name-calling, since he consistently calls other characters "fools" or "idiots", as well as saying "Hey, dummy!" to his own teammates in Mario Strikers Charged. In many of his appearances, Waluigi makes a "WAA!" sound whenever he loses, or gets hurt from hazards and other characters' actions; this sound, as well as Waluigi frequently calling his opponents "cheaters", are recognizable aspects of his speech.

Waluigi is personified as a comic relief troublemaker and a boastful, ill-tempered foil to the more humble and gentle Luigi. He has bad chemistry with most other characters besides Wario. He has a perpetual scowl and is quick to anger, with earlier bios stating that he dislikes others being happy. Waluigi is also ambitious. In his one outing as a central antagonist in Dance Dance Revolution: Mario Mix, Waluigi claims that his reason for obtaining the Music Keys is to be the best dancer in the world, while bragging about using his power to spread chaos and control "the masses". In Mario Tennis Aces, Waluigi points out that his and Wario's reasons for attaining Lucien was so that they could become the best tennis players in the world. Waluigi's original bio in Mario Tennis also pointed out that he seeked to become as popular and as beloved as the Mario Brothers. According to the trophy description in Super Smash Bros Melee, he also puts a lot of effort into his antagonistic schemes, although in the end, he never manages to succeed against his rivals. His victory celebrations, accompanied by his brandishing a rose since Mario Party 8, often highlight his self-aggrandizing nature and vanity, and in Japanese material, he speaks with the pronoun "ore-sama", commonly used for extremely arrogant characters.
However, despite his overconfidence, Waluigi is also characterized by comedic misfortune and the great amount of self-pity he displays at other times. According to his previous voice actor Charles Martinet, Waluigi feels that good things are always happening to others and not to him, causing him great frustration. Martinet considers his self-pity to be "the cornerstone of Waluigi's character", such as how he constantly points out his own disadvantages and is quick to attribute his losses to his opponents cheating, while hypocritically taking pride in his own cheating. While Waluigi appears aggressive at times, Martinet has nevertheless stated that he prefers to play up Waluigi's more conceited and self-pitying traits, as he feels that direct hostility is unfitting for Super Mario villains. In Mario Super Sluggers, Waluigi shows a bit more sportsmanship; after his scout mission is cleared, he subtly states the gang cheated but commends them for their sneakiness, and congratulates them when they beat the Wario Muscles in a ball game along with accepting the player's decline for one.
As a comic relief character, he is often given comical and nonsensical animations such as flying away in the controller warning screen in Mario Tennis, spawning a pool in Mario Power Tennis, or creating vines in Mario Strikers Charged.

In Super Mario Odyssey, the Waluigi Suit's description claims "This outfit makes you want to lurk in the shadows, waiting for a turn in the spotlight.", either further defining Waluigi to be envious of the Mario Bros, or a likely reference to Waluigi's absence in the mainline games. The Waluigi hat's description also says "It's rarely worn", likely further alluding to Waluigi's status of limited (albeit frequent) appearances throughout the series.
Waluigi has been shown as quite secretive about his personal life and has demonstrated a more cynical and skeptical point of view compared to the other characters, as even his oldest descriptions mentioned his egotism and his outsider status in the Mushroom Kingdom. However, recent games have played up Waluigi's hardworking and less malicious personality traits, as shown in Mario & Sonic at the Rio 2016 Olympic Games when he sardonically warns the player that people will not cheer on them forever just because they win medals, and in Mario Golf: World Tour when he interacts with the player character to either tell them to not let their victory get to their heads, or that they should be honest with themselves and happy because they earned it. Additionally, he remarks that his favorite thing to do in between rounds is just to relax and have fun.

Since Waluigi has the same first two letters of Wario, Waluigi's name may be considered an offshoot of Wario's name derived from Luigi rather than Mario. Waluigi's Japanese etymology has several meanings that refer to his personality. In Japanese, the "r" and "l" make the same sound, so Luigi can be pronounced in Japanese as "Ruīji", and Waluigi can be pronounced as "Waruīji". "Waruīji" is a portmanteau of "warui", the Japanese word for "bad" or "evil", and "Ruīji". However, "warui" can also mean "poor", "hateful", "abominable", and "inferior", representing Waluigi's reputation and his place compared to Mario and Luigi. Additionally, warui also means to make a condescending apology, as opposed to a polite apology, referring to Waluigi's arrogance. "Waruiji" (with short "i") is also an anagram of the Japanese word "ijiwaru", which translates to "someone who is bad" or "mean-spirited". "Ijiwaru" also translates to other harsh words such as "sadistic", "malicious", and "unkind".

Waluigi is usually a technical character in most of the Super Mario spin-offs, valuing precision and finesse over power. These range from simple actions, such as jumps, punches, and kicks, to unusual actions, such as spinning to make a small tornado, creating thorny vines, and swimming in midair. In Mario Kart: Double Dash!!, Mario Kart DS, and Mario Kart Arcade GP 2, Waluigi is a medium weight, balanced character, but in Mario Kart Wii onward Waluigi is among the heavier characters. In the Mario Strikers series, he is an offensive character in the first game, and an defensive character in the second game, boasting high run speed and tackling, but low kicking power and passing. His speed is doubled when he uses the Wall-Luigi! skill, enabling him to cross the field in a very short time. Due to his good reach, he is classified as a Defensive character in Mario Power Tennis.  However, some games portray Waluigi as slow and weak, for balance purposes.
Waluigi's legs are shown to be particularly powerful, as he easily defeats Bowser with a kick in Mario Party 3, and he is able to stomp characters into the ground in the Super Smash Bros. games. He shows his leg strength in Super Mario Strikers, with his Drop Rocket technique. In addition, Waluigi is demonstrated to be an great jumper. His stats are seen to come close to Luigi's jumping skills, if not surpassing it. 

In Mario Power Tennis, Waluigi can distort his body into the shape of his emblem and create a tornado, which can drive his opponent away. In Mario Hoops 3-on-3, he also creates tornadoes simply by dribbling the ball around himself. In Mario Strikers Charged, Waluigi shows the ability to summon and control thorny, purple vines, which he uses for his Wall-Luigi! Super Ability. He also uses them as a whip in his Mega Strike. In the same game, in his Deke, he also demonstrates to be capable of teleporting in purple puffs of smoke. In Mario And Sonic At The London 2012 Olympic Games, Waluigi displays the ability to use his "Γ" symbol as an energy projectile.
Alongside the power to mask the Whiskered Eggplant as a baseball, Waluigi, in Mario Super Sluggers displays powers with magical and tricky natures. His special pitch in Mario Super Sluggers is the Liar Ball. His Star Swing, the Liar Swing, consists of him hitting the ball and making it zig-zag during its path. In Super Mario Strikers, Waluigi's Super Strike, the Drop Rocket, consists of him surrounding himself with purple smoke and kicking the ball, covering it with a smoke trail
In the way of weaponry, Waluigi prefers the Bob-omb. In Mario Party 3, Waluigi uses a Piranha Plant in battle, and his board, Waluigi's Island, is seen filled with Piranha Plants. In Mario Party 7, Waluigi uses Professor E. Gadd's Coin Vacuum Orb to steal a random amount of Coins from his opponents. Waluigi's special pitch in Mario Superstar Baseball is the Liar Ball, which allows him to throw two balls, one of them being a Whiskered Eggplant.

Waluigi has been portrayed as Luigi's main rival since his first appearance in Mario Tennis, where the two challenge, mock and glare at each other. The Mario Tennis Japanese website states that Waluigi resents that Luigi is more liked than he is, wishing to defeat him and Mario in order to take their place and become respected himself. This is also seen in the Nintendo 3DS version of Mario & Sonic at the London 2012 Olympic Games where Waluigi stalks his rival and states that he is going to be the "greatest superstar in the world" after he defeats Luigi. The two also share bad chemistry in Mario Superstar Baseball. Another aspect of Waluigi's rivalry with Luigi is that both share apparently a romantic interest in Princess Daisy. Waluigi's crush and the resulting soft spot he has for the princess was stated in the official Mario Party 4 guide, and when partnered up in the series, their team names include "Awkward Date," "Double Facers," and "Skinny Stars," although there is little evidence otherwise that confirms this relationship. Daisy, meanwhile, does not return Waluigi's affections, however, and the two share bad chemistry in Mario Superstar Baseball.

Despite sometimes bickering, Waluigi and Wario have generally been shown to be sports partners, sharing good chemistry in the baseball games and often teaming up in sports events and spinoff titles. According to Fumihide Aoki, Waluigi was intended to be Wario's brother, but he pictured their current relationship as "like co-workers who only cooperate with each other when their goals are the same.". Although they have been called brothers in the original Mario Tennis website, Prima guide, and certain Nintendo of Europe sources such as Wario's Warehouse and the Mario Kart DS website, various websites, guides, and games since then have only described them as partners, with some explicitly stating the two are not related.
In a 2008 interview with Nintendo DREAM, Shugo Takahashi stated that Wario and Waluigi are not friends or brothers, or even blood-related. Waluigi's trophies in both Super Smash Bros. Melee and Super Smash Bros. Brawl indicate that their relationship is unclear. The Official Prima Guide for Mario Party 5 states Wario and Waluigi are not related, while website bios for Mario Party 10 and Super Mario Party call Waluigi Wario's accomplice and sidekick, respectively. Contrary to the European website, the Japanese website for Mario Kart DS only describes Waluigi as Wario's partner, while the European website for Mario Kart Wii calls him Wario's cohort.
A News Brief in Blizland in the Nintendo DS version of Mario & Sonic at the Olympic Winter Games states that "Wario and Waluigi aren't brothers". A question for the Athlete Characters Quiz in the Wii version of Mario & Sonic at the London 2012 Olympic Games revolves around Wario's and Waluigi's noses, and its announcer, Omochao, offhandedly says that the two of them are not related. Waluigi's profile in Mario & Sonic at the Sochi 2014 Olympic Winter Games describes him as Wario's partner. In the Wii U version of Mario & Sonic at the Rio 2016 Olympic Games, a line of dialogue from a Mii states again that Waluigi is not Wario's brother. In Mario & Sonic at the Olympic Games Tokyo 2020, a trivia fact about Waluigi states that he is not Wario's brother, and the game's website states he is Wario's pal.
Wario merely calls Waluigi his "sneaky pal" when the two are briefly in opposition in Mario Super Sluggers, and the two refer to each other as pals or buddies in Mario Golf: Super Rush. The Kids section of the Nintendo Co., Ltd. site describes Waluigi as Wario's partner, stating they do not appear to be brothers, while Mario Portal and the Official Home of Super Mario websites also describe Waluigi as Wario's partner, sidekick, pal, and accomplice. Charles Martinet, who voiced both characters, has stated his belief that they are simply "two nice, evil guys who found each other."
Waluigi is not shown to have many friends in the games. Like Wario, Waluigi is on almost as bad terms with Bowser as with most other characters in the series. While Bowser, Wario, and Waluigi team up to try and defeat Mario in the opening cutscene of Mario Power Tennis, they are in conflict more often, such as Bowser blocking the unscrupulous duo from destroying their shared foe Mario (for the Koopa King wanted this pleasure for himself) in Mario Super Sluggers, or Bowser and Waluigi fighting over the Mischief Star Stamp (with the latter curb-stomping the former) in Mario Party 3. As seen in Fortune Street, Bowser thinks very lowly of Waluigi, being quick to point out Waluigi's bad reputation and appearance. Waluigi in Fortune Street is shown to be confused by others being nice to him, and thinks they are trying to trick him into a false sense of security. However, he has demonstrated a lot less malice when interacting with the player characters, indicating that he mostly just hates the Mario Bros. in particular.
In addition, it has been implied that Waluigi is on particularly bad terms with the yellow virus from the Dr. Mario series. In a June 12, 2020 post made by the official Dr. Mario World social media accounts, which announces an in-game event where 20 of the then-available 21 doctors had their staffing rates increased by 1.5, the virus suggests that one doctor was omitted (Dr. Waluigi) because they do not get along.

「ワリオの相棒。ルイージをライバルだと思っている変わりもの。
マリオやルイージとたたかう力をたくわえるために、かくれたところでがんばっているようで、結構努力家な一面も。
手足が長いので、それを活かしたスポーツで活躍することもあります。」
Wario's partner. An eccentric who thinks of himself as Luigi's rival.
In order to accumulate the power to fight Mario and Luigi, it seems that he perseveres in a hidden place, so he also has a quite hardworking side.
Since his arms and legs are long, he also participates in sports that make the best use of them.

Waluigi has been portrayed by the following people: