Wario Stadium is the first race course of the Star Cup in Mario Kart 64. It is the second longest race in the game (only behind Rainbow Road), measuring at 1591m. According to the manual, Wario himself designed and built this track, making it his home track in the game. Wario Stadium shares its music with Luigi Raceway, Mario Raceway and Royal Raceway. It is the first Wario-themed course in the Mario Kart series.
Wario Stadium is the only track from Mario Kart 64 that has yet to reappear as a classic course in a future Mario Kart game.

The course takes place on a dirt track amid a huge stadium filled with spectators. The walls of the stadium are a bright blue and are covered with many Wario faces. The track itself is composed of straightaways, 90° turns, and 180° U-turns. Racers begin next to the stadium wall and first follow it counterclockwise about halfway around; this involves three straightaways with two gradual left turns in between. The first straightaway contains four consecutive small hills, while the second contains one much larger hill followed by the first set of Item Boxes. After this section, racers make a left turn immediately followed by a right turn and a U-turn to the left; in the middle of the U-turn is another item set. Racers then briefly drive straight over two small hills and take a left turn. Here racers briefly drive straight again before turning right and following the first part of the track, but in the opposite direction. Between the two subsequent gradual right turns is two huge hills, and along the second gradual right turn is another item set. Along the turn the track also greatly widens, and racers encounter many small hills; unlike the other hills on the track that span its entire width, the ones here are very narrow. Once racers pass the starting line from before, they take a U-turn to the right and the track narrows again. Racers briefly drive straight as they go off three hills of varying size. They then take a left U-turn and reach a very long straightaway.
This straightaway cuts through the very center of the stadium and persists until racers reach the stadium wall on the other side. It first contains six consecutive small hills, but then the track briefly dips down a fair bit and racers encounter another item set at its lowest point. Once at the stadium wall again, racers turn right and start following the wall clockwise. Along the ensuing gradual right turn, there is another item set, and after the turn there is another, much sharper right turn. Here racers drive straight and the road curves upward, culminating in a jump that racers must make over the very long straightaway they were previously on. If racers fail the jump and fall onto the track below, they will not be picked up by Lakitu, meaning they lose some progress and need to turn right to get back on track. The Lightning item is especially powerful here since racers are too slow to clear the jump while affected by it. Upon landing from the jump, there is another brief straight followed by a right turn and then another, more gradual right turn; along the first right turn is the last item set. Afterwards, racers take a very sharp left U-turn and reach the stadium wall once more. They take once last gradual left turn, continuing to follow the wall counterclockwise until they reach the finish line.

A glitch enables the player to hop over a wall just after the starting line and end up close to the finish line. A different glitch then can be used to jump over the barrier to just before the finish line, enabling players to cross the finish line while still qualifying as a full lap.