The Wario Bike is a motorcycle constructed by Dr. Crygor for Wario. The bike first appeared in WarioWare, Inc.: Mega Microgame$!. The Wario Bike has also made notable appearances outside of the WarioWare games. The design of the Wario Bike heavily resembles the chopper design, which was made popular in the late 1960s and early 1970s by various films featuring said chopper bikes, most notably Easy Rider.
Prior to the introduction of the Wario Bike, Wario has used a separate motorcycle in Wario Blast: Featuring Bomberman!.

Throughout the WarioWare series, the Wario Bike has made various appearances. Wario usually gets around in Diamond City with the Wario Bike and likes to drive fast. When Wario does not use it, the Wario Bike is usually put in the garage at Wario's House. The very first appearance of the motorcycle took place in WarioWare, Inc.: Mega Microgame$!. After Wario watched a report on television about a successful video game, he got the idea of making his own game. So Wario put on his biker outfit, mounted his bike and took off to get a computer.
The Wario Bike is also featured in a microgame ("Unexcite Bike") and a "full" minigame "(Wario Bike)."

Prior to the Wario Bike's debut in WarioWare Inc.: Mega Microgame$!, a motorcycle called Wario's Motorbike appears as one of many of Wario's obtainable presents in Mario Party 4. It is won when Wario wins in Toad's Midway Madness in Story Mode. Its appearance does not look anything like the Wario Bike, notably having Wario's "W" emblem on the front.
In Mario Party 10, a toy-like Wario Bike, now fully resembling the one from the WarioWare series, can be seen on the southwest of the Wario Board in amiibo Party. It is simply a background element.

The Wario Bike (known as the Wario Chopper on the official site) is Wario's side special move in Super Smash Bros. Brawl, Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS / Wii U and Super Smash Bros. Ultimate. With this move, he will ride his motorcycle, and smash into any player in the way, damaging them. Wario can also taunt while riding his bike. If the player tilts the control stick in the opposite direction Wario is facing, he will do a 180 degree turn (which can be done indefinitely without dismounting in Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS / Wii U), while tilting it up causes Wario to do a wheelie, then tilt down to reset it, both of which can deal even more damage if timed right.
The player can jump off of the motorcycle by pressing an attack or grab button or jumping, or by running into a wall. The motorcycle can also be stopped by other characters with a timed hit. When Wario jumps off the bike, Wario can pick up the bike and use it as an item that can be thrown around. The bike can also be destroyed, and in Brawl only, the pieces can be tossed around. Wario can also use Chomp to eat the bike, or any lone pieces from a destroyed bike. Wario can only have one bike on-screen at a time; if the move is used again Wario looks around for his bike, though if the move is used while next to a bike Wario will pick it up and start to ride it again. In Super Smash Bros. Brawl and Super Smash Bros. Ultimate, the player must wait 6 seconds after a bike is destroyed or despawned to be able to create another one. If Wario-Man uses this move, the bike drives forward even faster, but this could result in a self-destruct if the player is not careful.
In the Super Smash Bros. series, the Wario Bike has flames painted on certain sections and a Wario emblem. These details are not seen in any other games.
In Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS / Wii U, two custom variants can be unlocked for this move. The first custom is Speeding Bike, which travels faster and hits for more damage but lower knockback, cannot be turned around, and breaks more easily when damaged. The second custom is Burying Bike, which is also just as weak in knockback but will bury any opponents that Wario drives over, and can take more damage before breaking. However, the bike is slower and heavier than normal, which hinders Wario's recovery options.

The Wario Bike also makes an appearance in Mario Kart Wii, as an outside drifting bike for large characters. Depending on the character, the color scheme changes, and like all of its appearances, the emblem is located on the sides.
The Wario Bike features good acceleration, handling, and Mini-Turbo, along with a decent off-road stat. It is also the heaviest bike in the game, meaning it has the lowest jump angle among all bikes in the game. It also has the best handling and acceleration out of all the large vehicles. Its speed is near average, and although it is the slowest large vehicle in the game, its drifting is very weak. The kart counterpart for this bike is the Offroader, its medium counterpart is the Sugarscoot, and its small counterpart is the Bit Bike. The drift for the Wario Bike is exactly the same as the Super Blooper kart (tied with the aforementioned vehicle for the third worst drifting in the game behind its kart counterpart, the Offroader, and the Phantom), while its speed is tied with the Classic Dragster. It has the same weight and mini-turbo as the Flame Flyer. It also has the same off-road stat as the Cheep Charger. Sharing the Mach Bike's Harley-Davidson-like sound, this bike uses a four-stroke V-twin engine, and resembles a real Harley chopper. The Wario Bike also has the highest stat total out of any large vehicle in the game, having 317 stat points. Additionally, this and the Offroader are the only large vehicles in the game with a speed stat of less than forty.
The Wario Bike is one of seven vehicles in Mario Kart Wii to go through a design change other than a palette-swap; the others being the Booster Seat, Bit Bike, Flame Runner, Shooting Star, Spear, and Phantom. In this case, Rosalina's Wario Bike is thinner in appearance, has shorter exhaust pipes, and the foot pedestals are placed further. Also, Bowser's and Dry Bowser's Wario Bike have their handlebars positioned lower.
Wario wears his overalls while he is driving the Wario Bike, making it one of the few times Wario rides the bike while wearing his overalls, the other being the Super Smash Bros. series.
If Dry Bowser uses the Wario Bike, the bike's off-road stat becomes strong enough for it to drift on normal off-road terrain. Also, if Waluigi uses the Wario Bike, its drift stat will exceed that of the Dolphin Dasher by two points, but still be one point below that of the Jetsetter. In addition, if Funky Kong uses the Wario Bike, its speed will tie with the Zip Zip's and Standard Kart S' default speed stat.
A similar bike appears in Mario Kart 8, known as the Flame Rider.