A Warp Pipe (or warp pipe), also known as simply a Pipe (or pipe), is a common mode of transportation in the Super Mario franchise. Generally speaking, a Warp Pipe is a pipe that does not always appear to be connected to a second pipe physically, although traveling through it transports the traveler to the other end. In many cases, Warp Pipes can be used to cross great distances (and even worlds) instantly, while some pipes cannot even transport anything. The size of Warp Pipes can vary greatly. While some are too narrow for a human to enter, others are large enough for a kart or Bowser's Airship to travel through. They are typically green, but they have appeared in many other colors less frequently.

Warp Pipes first appear in the arcade game Mario Bros. Enemies emerge from these pipes and attack Mario and Luigi. While Mario and Luigi cannot use these pipes themselves, they can hide from enemies by standing behind the bottom ones; however, this does not protect them from fireballs or icicles.

Warp Pipes have appeared in nearly every Super Mario game since, and some of them can be entered by pressing , or  and a jump button (for upside-down pipes); some Warp Pipes are found protruding from walls, and can be entered simply by having Mario walk into them, or swim if underwater. However, in Super Mario Bros. 2, they are temporarily replaced with jars. These pipes are first used for transportation in Super Mario Bros. Some even lead to underground levels and bonus rooms. Piranha Plants can also be found in many pipes and are potentially hazardous.
In Super Mario World, some Warp Pipes act as mini-cannons, shooting Mario or Luigi high into the air. This feature is retained in New Super Mario Bros. Also, if Mario or Luigi uses the Mega Mushroom, they can kick a pipe, breaking it off if it is vertical (or pushing it in if it is horizontal), or Ground Pound it to make a vertical pipe lower to ground level. However, if Mega Mario or Luigi destroys a pipe, they cannot go down it anymore, though it fills up the meter at the top of the screen by a significant amount, resulting in some 1-Up Mushrooms. Small pipes are introduced in Super Mario Bros. 3: they are half the size of a regular Warp Pipe. They could not be entered until New Super Mario Bros., though, as they require Mario or Luigi to use a Mini Mushroom to get tiny so they can enter. Inside these small pipes, Star Coins can usually be found. Warp Pipes often come in many different colors, namely green, red, yellow, and blue. In the New Super Mario Bros. series, red pipes usually lead to secret exits.

Warp Pipes appear in Super Mario 64 and its remake, though their role is considerably reduced in comparison to the earlier 2D platformers. Mario (and, in Super Mario 64 DS, Luigi and Wario) arrives at the Mushroom Castle via Warp Pipe at the beginning of the game. Warp Pipes are also used to transport the player to the arena where Bowser is fought in Bowser in the Dark World and Bowser in the Sky, with Bowser in the Fire Sea instead using a funnel-looking warp with the same effect. Identical looking objects called Shrinker Pipes appear on Tiny-Huge Island.

 
Warp Pipes later appear more abundantly in Super Mario Sunshine. They are found in two colors: green and red. The green Warp Pipes are typically longer, and more common, while the red ones are typically shorter and rarer. Green Warp Pipes are typically found in Delfino Plaza, where they lead to many secret areas, including the Red Coin Field and the Super Slide. One green Warp Pipe is found on a small island, and is covered with an Orange Juice Generator, which, after using Yoshi to remove it, will take the player to the Lily Pad Ride. Another green Warp Pipe is found in Episode 4 of Sirena Beach behind a flipping tile wall.
Red Warp Pipes are found solely in Delfino Plaza, and are only used to transport Mario to Sirena Beach and Pianta Village, in place of the Rainbow Ms for Bianco Hills, Ricco Harbor, and Gelato Beach. The Warp Pipe for Sirena Beach is located on the rooftop of a building directly behind the Grand Pianta Statue, and is originally blocked by a large Pineapple, which Yoshi must eat for the player to continue. The Warp Pipe for Pianta Village is located on top of the Shine Gate; it can be accessed via the Rocket Nozzle.
Green Warp Pipes have black interiors while red Warp Pipes have multicolored interiors.

Warp Pipes appear in New Super Mario Bros., acting the same way they do in all games. They can be green, red, or yellow, and be destroyed by Mega Mario.

Warp Pipes appear in almost every galaxy in Super Mario Galaxy, where they are often used to transport the player between a planet's outside and inside, as well as to hidden or otherwise inaccessible areas. They only appear in two colors: orange and green. Some Warp Pipes remain stationary both before and after use, while others appear only when Mario is actually coming out of them before disappearing.
Some Warp Pipes in the game are covered, and they require that either a Key be collected or every enemy on a planet be defeated in order to gain access to them.

Warp Pipes return to New Super Mario Bros. Wii, functioning like they did in previous games. This time, there are four different colors: green, yellow, blue, and red. The colors of the pipes only serve decorative purpose. Some Pipes will spawn Goombas or Bob-ombs. While normally stationary, Pipes occasionally move up and down, and some Pipes hang from ceilings or face horizontally. Pipe Cannons also appear.

Warp Pipes in Super Mario Galaxy 2 serve basically the same purpose as they did in the predecessor. Some Warp Pipes tend to appear far more frequently on the ceiling of the inside sections of many planets and galaxies, mainly in the Rightside Down Galaxy and the Upside Dizzy Galaxy.
Warp Pipes also appear in World 3 and World 5 on the Grand World Map. When Starship Mario enters one, it gets transported to another part of the World Map that is otherwise inaccessible.
In the Supermassive Galaxy, several large Warp Pipes appear near the beginning of the level. Though they cannot be entered and therefore do not transport Mario to any special areas, they do serve a purpose. One of the first two Warp Pipes that are encountered is home to a Super Piranha Plant, which Mario must be careful to avoid. The third continually rises up and down, and acts as an elevator to the next area of the level. Later in the level, the player will fly through a large Warp Pipe tunnel leading to the next area. Two more large Warp Pipes near the end of the level house two more Super Piranha Plants.
In the Battle Belt Galaxy, Warp Pipes play a major role in progressing through the level, as they transport the player to the inside of several planets, where they must defeat every enemy to continue. The Warp Pipes in this galaxy are all covered, and the player must defeat all enemies on the surface of each planet before the planet's Warp Pipe can be accessed.
A Warp Pipe appears near the left ear of Starship Mario after the player collects a certain amount of Power Stars. It leads to a secret area where the player encounters two Lumalees who sell Chance Cubes for Coins and Star Bits. Additionally, on Starship Mario, if Mario manages to get on top of the chimney near the helm, he goes down it as if it were a Warp Pipe. The chimney leads to the engine room of Starship Mario. Mario also comes out of a Warp Pipe on the way to Peach's Castle at the very beginning of the game. At this point in the game, several other Warp Pipes are encountered which do not warp the player to anywhere at all, and so act merely as platforms.

Warp Pipes appear in the Nintendo 3DS game Super Mario 3D Land. As in the 2D Super Mario games, vertical ones can be entered by pressing  or  while on one to make Mario (or Luigi) go down it; one sticking out of a wall may simply be walked into to enter. After the player has unlocked Special 1-8, Warp Pipes appear at the beginning of each world and provide access between the normal worlds and the special worlds. When Special 8-Crown is unlocked, it replaces the Warp Pipe connecting World 8 and Special 8, which cannot be used after this point. World Warp Pipes appear in two Warp Zones in Worlds 1-2 and 4-2. These allow the player to warp to the next world and skip the following levels in the world they are in.

Warp Pipes appear in the Nintendo 3DS game New Super Mario Bros. 2. Some of them house Piranha Plants, while others allow Mario (or Luigi) to warp. If the player destroys a Piranha Plant in a Warp Pipe with a Koopa Shell affected by a Gold Ring, numerous Coins come out. Mario (or Luigi) can go down pipes by pressing or sliding /.

In the Wii U game New Super Mario Bros. U, Warp Pipes appear and work the same way as in other games, though with a simplistic redesign. Mini Mario can enter small pipes like in previous games. The player can go down or up pipes with  or . Some Pipes face diagonally, and cannot be entered.

Super Mario 3D World marks the debut of transparent Clear Pipes and Clear Pipe Cannons, which are similar to Warp Pipes, but have two ends that are always visibly connected. Likewise, coins, enemies, and characters can be seen travelling through them by the player. 
While traditional green Warp Pipes return, they are less common as a result of Clear Pipes being introduced. However, golden Warp Pipes appear for the first time, and take characters to golden bonus rooms with many coins when entered. The World Warp Pipes from Super Mario 3D Land also return and, as in that game, only appear in World 1-2 and World 4-2. 

A Pixel Luigi can be seen jumping out of certain Warp Pipes in Koopa Troopa Cave and Really Rolling Hills when the Time Limit is at 105.
In the Bowser's Fury campaign of Super Mario 3D World + Bowser's Fury, Bowser Jr. can use his magic brush to paint graffiti, including one image of a golden Warp Pipe, which causes an actual pipe to appear from the ground. When entered, it takes Mario to a coin-filled bonus room similar to the ones in the main campaign. The pipe can also be destroyed if Plessie collides with it. If this is done, it will not reappear until the current save file is reloaded.

Warp Pipes appear in Super Mario Maker and Super Mario Maker for Nintendo 3DS as objects that can be placed in levels. If an enemy or item is placed inside the Warp Pipe it will start spawning them. They can also be used to expand upon levels; by dragging Mario inside a Warp Pipe, the player is able to create a side area separate from the main level. The Pipe's length and positioning can also be adjusted.

In Super Mario Run, Pipes are key objects in the game, even as part of the game's user interface. Diagonal pipes never appear in this game.
Each of the game's modes is tied to a specific color of pipe: Green for World Tour, Red for Toad Rally, and Yellow for Remix 10. From the Mushroom Kingdom menu, the player can use any of these pipes to transition to that mode. This is depicted as Mario going down the pipe. This is similarly depicted as the back button from those modes, using a pipe of the same color as the mode, but without Mario depicted as going through.
Pipes appear in multiple courses as platforms to stand on, jump over, walk under, or Wall Jump from. They can be green in most cases, red in desert courses, grey in Ghost Houses. and yellow in Cutting-Edge Spire. Piranha Plants can come from them, as usual. Pipes can be vaulted over if they are low enough. 
In World Tour, the underground courses of this game, Wall-Kicking It Underground, Treasure-Hoarding Swoops, and Danger High and Low use pipes in a number of ways aside from platforms. The player starts all three courses by dropping out of a pipe. The player enters pipes during the course which happens automatically in this game when the player touches the entrance while grounded. Most of them are one way transitions to the next area, with the screen scrolling to the destination. A bubble can allow the player to float back through the transition. The last enterable pipe of each course cuts the screen to black to load a new area, then takes the player to an above ground section with the Goal Pole. A bubble cannot float back to the prior area.
Airship courses outside of World Star, those being Airship Cannons...Fire!, Firing the Airship's Burners, and Throwing It All Overboard, end on a green Pipe that takes the player to a room inside the ship for the boss battle against Boom Boom. This also involves a loading screen, and drops the player into the the room from above. As before, bubbles do not float back to the prior area. World Star's two Airship courses are exceptions. Airship Plunder already is in the interior of an Airship but still ends in a pipe to take the player to a different room for a boss battle. Airship Armada ends on a normal Goal Pole.
Toad Rally uses pipes as transitions as well. Since it splices together different courses to create an infinitely long course, the enterable pipes of Airship courses do not appear. Enterable pipes in underground courses do appear, with the transition used to switch layouts. No pipe takes the player to an above ground section in this mode. During a Coin Rush, pipes often spit out coins to collect. The Toads the player gains in this mode go to the Mushroom Kingdom through a red pipe.
Remix 10 connects each Area with pipes. A pipe pops up from the ground when Mario reaches the end of an Area, which is marked with a yellow number for the Area it leads to. Mario enters this pipe, and exits at the start of the next area. Afterward, the pipe sinks back into the ground and vanishes. Randomly, a non standard animation may play instead of the normal one. These can have Mario exit cautiously or enter the pipe upside down. One animation has the pipe reveal itself to be a pipe cannon, as it shoots Mario into the air and over to the next area.
Remix 10 uses pipes to conclude each course. For underground courses, the pipes that were transitions in the other modes serve as the goal of courses. This also means the pipe takes on some of the properties of the Goal Pole, in that entering one collects all gravity affected coins and converts Super Mushrooms and Super Stars that are not inside bubbles into five coins. Most courses in Remix 10 end in Goal Poles, which transitions into the next course by having the player go through a pipe of the color matching the course's location. Castle courses use grey pipes. VS Boom Boom starts with the player dropping in from a pipe, as per the boss battles with Boom Boom from other modes. Segments from underground courses that have Mario drop from a pipe continue to open with that pipe in this mode. Other pipes still appear, and while the player is invincible those pipes spit out coins in the same way they do during a Coin Rush.
Pipes are also buildings that can be purchased from the Shop, then placed as in the Mushroom Kingdom in the Kingdom Builder mode. They can be in all five of the Toad colors in the game: Red, Blue, Green, Yellow, and Purple. They also come in one of three variations.

The descriptions for [Color] Pipe B indicate that enemies and obstacles could be inside pipes, with Blue Pipe B naming Swoop, Green Pipe B naming Piranha Plant, Red Pipe B naming Fire Bar, Purple Pipe B naming Buzzy Beetle, and Yellow Pipe B naming Pokey.
The Piranha Plant Statue has a pipe that the Piranha Plant comes out of.
There are also four special pipes that can be placed in the Kingdom Builder. Each of them has a star design matching the color coins of Super Mario Run, and a white base. They take up a 1x1 area. By tapping on these pipes, the player can access a Special Course. The Pink Coin Pipe can only be obtained after collecting every Pink Coin, and allows the player to play Chase the Snaking Coins. The Purple Coin Pipe can only be obtained after collecting every Purple Coin, and allows the player to play Piranha Plant Field. The Black Coin Pipe can only be obtained after collecting every Black Coin, and allows the player to play Make the Cut!.  The Gold Star Pipe has a unique star shaped opening, and can only be obtained after collecting every ★Black Coin. It allows the player to play Red Block Run. As special buildings, only one of each can ever be obtained.

In Super Mario Odyssey, in addition to regular Warp Pipes, a blocky 8-bit pipe also appears, where they can be found connected to walls with animated murals in the design of Super Mario Bros. If Mario enters one of these pipes, he will be transported into the mural itself in his Super Mario Bros. appearance (though while retaining his modern color scheme or his current outfit), where the player controls him in a side-scrolling sequence similar to the original game. The regular pipes have a more metallic design than most games. Moon Pipes also debut in this game, being spawned by breaking Moon Rocks; these pipes always send Mario to new sub-levels. The player can also enter the Odyssey through the largest exhaust pipe as if it were a Warp Pipe.
Unlike in prior games, Mario will enter Warp Pipes quicker if he Ground Pounds, Rolls, Dives, or Long Jumps into one, rather than finishing the move and entering it normally; the sound effect that plays when entering one will also be sped up.

Warp Pipes reappear in Super Mario Maker 2 as objects that can be placed in levels. In this game, different colors of Warp Pipes appear, including red, yellow, and blue. Each color of Warp Pipe releases its contents at different speeds, with the blue Warp Pipe being the slowest, the green Warp Pipe being the second slowest, the yellow Warp Pipe being the second fastest, and the red Warp Pipe being the fastest. Additionally, Clear Pipes appear in the Super Mario 3D World style.

In Super Mario Bros. Wonder, in addition to regular Warp Pipes, living pipes that move up and down and like inchworms, the latter of which are named Inchworm Pipes, occasionally appear when a Wonder Effect occurs. There is also a Warp Pipe that can be pushed and occasionally connected to form a whole pipe, and are visually similar to the Warp Pipes in Sweet Sweet Canyon in Mario Kart 8 because of their teal appearance. Occasionally, Warp Pipes can take the player into the background or foreground of the level.

Warp Pipes appear in all three of the Super Mario TV shows (The Super Mario Bros. Super Show!, The Adventures of Super Mario Bros. 3, and Super Mario World), where they function the same way as in the games the shows were based on. Warp Pipes are also present in the real world and can be used to travel between it and the Mushroom Kingdom. Throughout the cartoons, Warp Pipes are referred to with different names; in the The Adventures of Super Mario Bros. 3 episode "Reign Storm," Princess Toadstool calls one a "drain pipe," while in the Super Mario World episode "Fire Sale," Mario refers to one as a "warp tube."

The Nintendo Comics System story "A Mouser in the Houser" reveals that humanoid mice constructed the Transport Tube system before their king, Mouser, was corrupted by the Koopa King. They still have extensive maps of it.

In Super Mario Adventures, Warp Pipes appear as the mode of transport between the Mushroom Kingdom and the lands surrounding Yoshi Village. On their first trip through the Warp Pipe that Bowser has traveled through, Princess Toadstool and her followers end up at a different location from where Mario and Luigi emerge. The narration states that Mario and Luigi "hooked up with the wrong connection somewhere," implying that not all Warp Pipes lead solely to one other location.

Warp Pipes play a similar role in the Yoshi franchise, but they can also spawn Shy Guys, Boo Guys, and similar enemies, usually as a source for Yoshi Eggs. A Warp Pipe character has appeared in Yoshi's New Island named Mr. Pipe. He helps Yoshi by giving him helpful items if Yoshi repeatedly fails a level.
Warp Pipes appear in Yoshi's Woolly World—however, to fit with the theme of the game, they are made of yarn. Some Warp Pipes are just outlines, and can only be used after a yarn ball in any color is thrown at them as it creates them. In multiplayer mode, when one Yoshi goes down a Warp Pipe, the other Yoshi is teleported immediately to the Warp Pipe. Egg Plants can also appear in Warp Pipes.

In the Mario Kart series, Warp Pipes (usually referred to as simply "pipes") appear as simple obstacles on the courses, especially on the Mario Circuits. They act as walls, in that racers who drive into them slow down significantly or even come to a stop; however, the pipes can be taken out by several means, such as hitting them with a powerful item (e.g. a Spiny Shell) or driving into them while powered-up by a Super Star, Bullet Bill, or other condition-changing item. Piranha Plants can also be in pipes in courses like GCN Yoshi Circuit. On some occasions, mostly in Mario Kart: Double Dash!!, the player can enter a pipe and get warped to another area, which is mainly for the purpose of collecting Item Boxes. This also happens in Mario Kart DS, but only in Pipe Plaza, since it is a battle course that originated in Mario Kart: Double Dash!!.

In Mario Kart Tour, cannon-like pipes are used to obtain various random items. The player can pull down and release such a pipe to fire out drivers, karts, gliders, and balloons, as well as inventory items (coins, rubies, and tickets). Each pipe has a set pool of items it can draw from: generally, green pipes can give out items of all kinds, with gold pipes guaranteeing at least one High-End item of any kind; however, the All-Clear Pipe, unlocked by completing all courses and bonus challenges in a tour, only ever gives out a High-End driver, kart, or glider, and does not feature balloons or inventory items. Pipes appear as rewards from Tour Gifts, multiplayer races, and Premium Challenges, while also being purchasable from the Token Shop using event tokens. Prior to the Battle Tour, the Shop featured pipes that unlocked spotlight items, with 5 rubies needed to fire one such pipe once and 45 to fire the pipe ten times.
Within races, pipes appear as obstacles and ramps. In regular races (i.e. not in bonus challenges), those that act as obstacles grant bonus points when taken out. Pipes can also release various things, such as Goombas (as seen in 3DS Toad Circuit R/T), Item Boxes (in some Break Item Boxes bonus challenges), air currents, or underwater currents. A course themed around Warp Pipes, Piranha Plant Pipeline, debuted in this game during the aptly named Pipe Tour.
Below is a list of courses in Mario Kart Tour that feature pipes which can be taken out. (Select "show" to reveal the list.)

A Warp Pipe appears at the end of Donkey Kong for the Game Boy after Mario rescues Pauline in Stage 9-9, though it doesn't serve any gameplay function.

Warp Pipes are also present in four games of the Wario Land series, namely Virtual Boy Wario Land, Wario Land 3, Wario Land 4, and Wario Land: Shake It! They work exactly like their counterparts from the Mushroom Kingdom, with the distinction that they don't contain enemies.
The Golf minigame in Wario Land 3 must be accessed through a Warp Pipe. In addition, the slots in the "load file" screen of Wario Land: Super Mario Land 3 bear a resemblance to Warp Pipes. In Wario Land 4, the pipes are purple and warp the player to a pink area. In Wario Land: Shake It!, if Wario goes into a green pipe, the sound effect is similar to that of the Super Mario franchise, but slightly deepened.

Warp Pipes are also items that appear throughout the Mario Party series.

Warp Pipes appear in the Luigi's Engine Room board in Mario Party.  They are located at the ends of different paths on the board, and all connect to a single Warp Pipe at the far right side of the board, leading to Boo, Koopa, and the Start Space. A Warp Pipe is also used to access the main game mode in Mushroom Village; once chosen, Toad appears to be falling through an endless tunnel until all the game settings have been set.

Warp Pipes appear in the Bowser Land board in Mario Party 2. Here, green pipes lie scattered around the edges of the board, and a few red pipes appear side-by-side in the center right of the board. When the player lands on a Happening Space near any of these pipes, the player will be overcome with an urge to jump into the pipe, and will be ejected from one of the green pipes, even if they jumped in a red pipe.

Warp Pipes appear in the Waluigi's Island Battle Royale Map in Mario Party 3, fulfilling a similar role as in Mario Party's Luigi's Engine Room. Red pipes are located at the ends of different paths on the board, and when reached, they send the player to a green pipe near the Start Space.
They also appear in the Pipesqueak Duel Map. Here, hopping into one of the four pipes on the board will cause the player to come out of one of the other three pipes. The colors of the Warp Pipes are orange, yellow, blue and pink.

In Mario Party 4, the Warp Pipe is a usable item used for transportation on boards. Whoever uses it switches places with another player on a board via roulette. This makes it the successor of the Warp Block. It costs 10 Coins to purchase from an Item Shop. Mario Party 4 also features a variant of Warp Pipe known as a tiny pipe, which serves a board obstacle that players in Mini form can bypass.
Warp Pipes appear in the third section of the minigame Dungeon Duos, where players have to jump through them until they find the correct pipe that advances them to the next section. The first room has five pipes to guess from, and the second room has nine pipes.

In Mario Party 5, the Warp Pipe appears as the Warp Pipe Capsule. When used for 10 Coins, or if the player lands on a space containing it, it takes on the same effect as in Mario Party 4, causing the player to switch places with an opponent decided by roulette.
In the minigame Pop-Star Piranhas, five Pipes are lined up on stage with Piranha Plants dancing in them.

The Warp Pipe Capsule returns in Mario Party 6, now known as the Warp Pipe Orb. It has the same effect as in the previous game, switching the player's place with an opponent decided by roulette, except that it can no longer be thrown onto a space, and no longer costs the player Coins to use on themselves.
Warp Pipes also appear in Clockwork Castle. The top and bottom of the board each have a green pipe, a red pipe, and an inactive pipe. Upon reaching a pipe, players have the option of jumping into it, which will transport them to the other pipe of the same color. Some of the ? Spaces on the board will cause the colors of the Warp Pipes to change when landed on. At night, only the green pipes are usable.
In the minigame Lift Leapers, players enter and exit each section of the course though a Warp Pipe.
In the minigame Ball Dozers, each team's ball enters the top of the arena through a Warp Pipe.
In the minigame Mole-it!, Monty Moles and Piranha Plants pop out of several connected Warp Pipes. The pipes are either blue or red, representing each competing team.

The Warp Pipe Orb returns in Mario Party 7, but with a new effect: it is now a Roadblock Orb that can be thrown onto a space. If one of the player's opponents passes this space, a Warp Pipe appears beneath them, and transports them back to the space they started their turn at, continuing their move from there.
A special type of Warp Pipe, the Bowser Pipe, is sometimes used by Koopa Kid on the Koopa Kid Space. It is used to switch the player's place with a randomly selected opponent.
Warp Pipes appear in the duel minigame Warp Pipe Dreams, where players have to jump through several of them to find their way to the center pipe.
In the minigame Snow Ride, Warp Pipes appear as obstacles in the center of the snowboard path, causing player to lose momentum if hit.
In the minigame Herbicidal Maniac, players aim at several Warp Pipes to shoot Piranha Plants that pop out.

In Mario Party 8, Warp Pipes housing Piranha Plants appear in the DK's Treetop Temple and King Boo's Haunted Hideaway boards. When the player lands on a Green Space next to one of these pipes, the Piranha Plant inside will bite the player, taking away 10 Coins.
When King Boo shuffles the Haunted Hideaway, every player emerges out of a black Warp Pipe at the start of the board. The same happens to any player who leaves the house in any other way (reaching King Boo with less than 10 coins, rejecting his Star, encountering a pitfall, Donkey Kong, or Bowser, or after getting a Star from King Boo in Star Battle Arena, as King Boo simply turns his sanctum into a pitfall rather than shuffling the board), although only the player who reaches such conditions is sent out of the house, rather than every player. In the case of getting a star from King Boo or Donkey Kong, the player who got the Star exits through a Warp Pipe at the back of the sanctum. In the case of reaching King Boo with less than 10 coins, rejecting his Star, or encountering a pitfall or Bowser, this does not happen as the player falls through a pitfall instead, although they will still emerge out of the Warp Pipe at the start of the board.
In the minigame Winner or Dinner, four orange Pipes appear in the corners of an oasis, where Piranha Plants will chuck players out of the oasis if they get too close.

In Mario Party DS, Warp Pipes appear when a player reaches a shop space and decides to go in. A Warp Pipe is also used as an item, but the item is named a Star Pipe and allows the owner of the item to travel to the Star. This pipe also differentiates from a normal Warp Pipe in that it has a star pattern on the front of it.

Warp Pipes generally appear next to Lucky and Unlucky Spaces in Mario Party 9. The pipes next to a Lucky Space take the player to a six-space route with Mini Star Spaces, and Unlucky Space pipes take the player to a path with only Mini Ztar Spaces. Warp Pipes near a Lucky Space are colored blue, and the ones next to Unlucky Spaces are red, which match the colors of their respective spaces. Players willingly go down the Lucky Space pipe, while a Piranha Plant eats the player and takes them to the unlucky route.
A brick Warp Pipe also appears in the Urn It minigame. For three rounds, a spinning urn comes out of the Warp Pipe. Players have to determine the pattern of the urn from a set of three choices.

In Mario Party 10, Warp Pipes appear in amiibo Party, where they will warp players that land on a Warp Space to another Warp Space on the board. They also appear as one of the board-exclusive events of the Peach Board known as "Plant Pipes".

Warp Pipes appear in Super Mario Party on the board Megafruit Paradise as what the player can use to alternate between islands. The Star Pipe, now known as the Golden Pipe, also returns. A cup that resembles a Warp Pipe is seen in the background of Sizzling Stakes. Additionally, Shell Shocked Deluxe features Warp Pipes as unbreakable barriers.

In Mario Party Superstars, Warp Pipes return in Mushroom Village (now called Village Square), where they serve the same role as before. Golden Pipes also reappear.

Pipes return in Super Mario Party Jamboree as items; when used, they transport the player to a random space.

Warp Pipes have served a multitude of purposes in the Super Smash Bros. series.

In Super Smash Bros., they first appear as Mario's and Luigi's on-screen appearance in reference to Mario's entrance in Super Mario 64 and later on in the stage Mushroom Kingdom, where players can use two Warp Pipes to warp between one side to another; on occasion, they may also transport to the pit in the center, where a one-way Warp Pipe appears. Also, three Warp Pipes appear in Luigi's Board the Platforms stage; they have blinking platforms coming in and out of them, which Luigi must land on in order to finish the stage.

In Super Smash Bros. Melee, Warp Pipes act as checkpoints in Stage 1: Mushroom Kingdom of the Adventure Mode. Additionally, Warp Pipes appear in the background of the stage Mushroom Kingdom and a single diagonal Warp Pipe, supported by two mini pipes, serves as a slope on the stage Yoshi's Island.

In Super Smash Bros. Brawl, they reappear as Mario and Luigi's on-screen appearance and as platforms in both World 1-1 and World 1-2 versions of Mushroomy Kingdom (though they cannot be entered, unlike in Super Mario Bros.; they are realistically designed, like the rest of the stage) and the returning Melee Stage Yoshi's Island. One also appears in the background on one of the islands in the Delfino Plaza stage, just as it did in Super Mario Sunshine; the others were removed. More appear in the background of Mario Circuit. The Mario Bros. stage also features the original enemy-spawning pipes, though they only release Shellcreepers and Sidesteppers.

In Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS and Super Smash Bros. for Wii U, they once again serve as Mario's and Luigi's on-screen appearance. In the 3DS version, they also act as solitary platforms in the returning World 1-1 version of Mushroomy Kingdom and the new stages Golden Plains and 3D Land; in the latter stage, some of them may increase and decrease in height, like in Super Mario World, and a big one restarts the stage's loop at the end; this pipe is also seen in the stage's Final Destination form. The Paper Mario stage has a pipe in its Hither Thither Hill form, although it acts a spring instead. In PictoChat 2, Warp Pipes can be drawn onto the stage for a while; these pipes can be used for transport, just like the ones in the original Mushroom Kingdom stage. In the Wii U version, the Warp Pipes of Yoshi's Island (Melee), Delfino Plaza, and Mario Circuit (Brawl) return, working as they did before. The Super Mario Maker stage (available for both versions as DLC) may also feature solitary platform Warp Pipes.

In Super Smash Bros. Ultimate, Warp Pipes reappear as Mario and Luigi's on-screen appearance, and Piranha Plant fights in a Warp Pipe for four out of its eight alternate costumes. Warp Pipes also appear around the world map of Adventure Mode: World of Light, where they can be used to travel to different areas. Returning stages from previous installments, such as Mushroom Kingdom, Yoshi's Island (Melee), Mushroomy Kingdom, Delfino Plaza, Figure-8 Circuit, Mario Bros., Golden Plains, 3D Land, Paper Mario and Super Mario Maker feature Warp Pipes in the same fashion as they did before.

In Paper Mario, Warp Pipes are used to take Mario to new areas, and are found throughout the game. A Warp Pipe hidden in Toad Town takes Mario to the Playroom, where he can play two minigames.
Blue Warp Pipes, which act as shortcuts to previous areas, can be found in the Toad Town Tunnels. The pipes to Goomba Village, Koopa Village, Dry Dry Outpost are found just to the west of the entrance past a Stone Block and are guarded by a Blooper. The pipe to Boo's Mansion is found in the west of the second sublevel, and Mario must fight three battles with Dark Koopas to make the pipe appear. The pipe to Lavalava Island is found by using Sushie to cross the water on the second sublevel and defeating a Blooper.

In Paper Mario: The Thousand-Year Door and its Switch remake, Warp Pipes have the same purpose as in Paper Mario. When using them, a transition effect is added, depicting the screen crinkling and straightening out at the new location. The Warp Pipes in Boggly Woods seem to be made of wood, and usually have a hole in the side so that Punies can use them more easily.
There are also blue shortcut pipes in Rogueport Underground second sublevel, which to serve as shortcuts to Petalburg, The Great Tree, Keelhaul Key, Poshley Heights, with the remake adding Glitzville, Twilight Town, and Fahr Outpost, while a pipe leading from this room to Rogueport was also added. In the original game, the first two require the Super Hammer, and the last two require the Ultra Hammer. In the remake, completing each chapter and taking that chapter's Crystal Star to The Thousand-Year Door allows the Magical Map to unlock each pipe. There are also differently colored pipes that lead to Petal Meadows, Boggly Woods, Twilight Town, and the Path to Fahr Outpost.

Warp Pipes reappear in Super Paper Mario. When a character is about to enter a Warp Pipe, they split into several small squares, which then go down the pipe and reassemble at the other end. A smaller variant called Mini Warp Pipes appear, and can only be entered if the character has shrunk with Dottie. Pixelated Warp Pipes appear in The Bitlands, but function the same. Blue Warp Pipes are built by Welderberg. There are three of them in the game: One leads to Flipside's B2F, one to Flopside's B2F, and one to Flopside from Flipside (and vice versa). Each is accessible on the second floor of both cities. The Return Pipe is an Important Thing that allows the player to return to Flipside Tower from almost any dimension.

Warp Pipes also appear in Paper Mario: Sticker Star, functioning the same as in previous titles. One Warp Pipe is a scrap that Mario must use to progress in Hither Thither Hill.

Warp Pipes also appear in Paper Mario: Color Splash, with the same purpose as in previous games. Warp Pipes cannot be entered if they are not fully colored. Some Warp Pipes in Daffodil Peak contain enemies inside of them that must be fought in order to get through, including a Spiny and a Koopa Troopa. At Sacred Forest, a large Warp Pipe has the Turnip Thing stuck in it. Once it is pulled out by the yellow Rescue Squad, the pipe is also removed from the ground. A small scrap of paper sticks out, and if Mario pulls it, it reveals a smaller Warp Pipe. Another small Warp Pipe appears later in the level, and must be enlarged with the Magnifying Glass Thing. Special varieties of the Warp pipe also appear, such as the pipes used to access the parallel world in the Violet Isles. These pipes have orate designs that glow and circle the floor beneath the pipe. Mustard Café's underground sections contain long spinning Warp Pipes. There is also a tall, orange Warp Pipe that is initially clogged with sand, acting as a path to the café.

Warp Pipes appear in Paper Mario: The Origami King and function the same as in past Paper Mario games, with the added stipulation that a pipe cannot be entered unless the Olly Tape on the other side is removed. One notable pipe is a white pipe in the Musée Champignon, leading to an underground room full of six shiny, numbered, color-coded warp pipes to six different areas, acting as a fast-travel system of sorts:

There is also an orange pipe leading from central Toad Town to the Sensor Lab over in Picnic Road, as well as some ordinary green ones that can let him traverse the town more quickly. Additionally, after Mario beats the game, a slightly crumpled green pipe will appear outside of the final boss room; it will warp Mario back outside the castle's front door.

Warp Pipes make an appearance in Peach's Castle Grounds in Mario Golf: Toadstool Tour. When the player hits the ball into one, it will be transported to another of the same color, allowing them to skip part of the hole. Warp Pipes also appear in Mario Golf: World Tour. In holes 1, 5, and 8 of Peach Gardens, the pipes are fully seen when the entire hole is viewed, but are submerged when the hole is actually being played. When the ball enters a pipe, the pipe comes out of the ground and shoots the ball onto the green or near it. In the Royal Gardens, Warp Pipes take the Mii to Mario World courses. They are also seen in the Castle Club basement, and they take the Mii to regional or world tournaments. They also appear in Mario Golf: Super Rush in the Bowser Highlands course where they act as rock. If a ball lands on it, the player's next stroke will be blocked.

In Mario & Luigi: Superstar Saga, nine green Warp Pipes (thirteen in the remake) allow Mario and Luigi to travel the Beanbean Kingdom faster. In order to warp to one of these pipes, Mario and Luigi have to have entered it before. Yellow Warp Pipes also appear, which can transport Mario and Luigi to underwater or underground areas. They are found around Oho Ocean, Gwarhar Lagoon and Teehee Valley. Unlike green Warp Pipes, they do not automatically transport Mario and Luigi from one end to the other. If they enter it from the top, they immediately fall down. If they want to climb back up,  and  must be pressed and held at the same time, which makes them interlock arms and walk up the yellow pipe's sides. Around Oho Ocean and Gwarhar Lagoon, yellow pipes lead to the seabed, while in Teehee Valley, they lead to underground ruins. While Princess Peach is being escorted through Teehee Valley, she is brought through these pipes and into one of the ruins if a Gritty Goomba captures her. Finally, there are also a few small green Warp Pipes, which can warp either Mario or Luigi to a 2D bonus dungeon.

During the events of Mario & Luigi: Partners in Time, special blue Warp Pipes require Mario, Luigi, Baby Mario, and Baby Luigi to stand on them in order to activate them. Also, when Mario and Luigi are separated from Baby Mario and Luigi, one of the brothers can jump up and hit a Warp Block, out of which a miniature pipe comes and plants itself in the ground. It then grows to the size of a normal pipe allowing either pair of brothers to jump in and be reunited with the other pair. If used while both pair of brothers are near each other, the pipe jumps out and goes back inside the block.

In Mario & Luigi: Bowser's Inside Story and its Nintendo 3DS remake, Mario & Luigi: Bowser's Inside Story + Bowser Jr.'s Journey, Bowser inhales several Warp Pipes once he eats the Vacuum Shroom from Fawful. In this game, they are used as a link between Bowser's body and the Mushroom Kingdom. They are the only way to get the Mario brothers out of Bowser's body, and they can be found in the Pipe Yard. When the Pipe Yard is unlocked, there is a tall red pipe blocking the area until Bowser gets shocked. Bowser cannot jump into these. A Special Attack (Bros. Attack in the remake) called Spin Pipe is used in this game as well.
There are a few pipes that transport the player into another area in the overworld without going into Bowser. There are a few in Bowser's Castle, taking the player into the basement of the castle, or through the shortcut.

In Mario & Luigi: Dream Team, Warp Pipes make a number of appearances, connecting distant areas. In the real world, standard green Warp Pipes appear, usually leading to cave areas. Like the previous installments, both Mario and Luigi must stand on a plate of Warp Pipe to enter it. Landing on a pipe causes Ball Hop to end. Pipes placed horizontally do not have plates, and can just be walked into as a pair.
Special gold colored Warp Pipes appear scattered throughout Pi'illo Island, which are unlocked after escaping Dreamy Mount Pajamaja. Prince Dreambert remembers hiding a Warp Pipe Block near Mount Pajamaja's Dreampoint. When Mario hits the block, these pipes pop out and land all over the island. The pipes act similarly to the ones in Mario & Luigi: Superstar Saga, allowing the player to quickly return to areas. While the pipes in every previously accessed area are unlocked by default, later pipes have to be entered in order to add them to the possible destinations. As part of the tutorial, the player is required to leave Mount Pajamaja and return to Pi'illo Castle with the pipes.
In the Dream World, pipes can connect areas, and are entered with a corresponding directional input. Pipes are frequently used to allow the player to return to the start of a room, or to quickly return the player to the Dream Portal after reaching the end of an area. Some pipes are stuck in the ground, and are only uprooted for general use after hitting switches, hitting ! Blocks, or exiting from that pipe.  Dreamy Driftwood Shore and Dreamy Wakeport have pipes appear in differing colors to aid navigation. Some pipes are in the background, functioning largely identically to doors. Such pipes appear prominently in Dreamy Driftwood Shore, where pipes with a lip symbol on one end connect each portion of the area to Broque Madame's, a shop run by a dream version of Broque Madame. Pipes can only be entered while grounded, sometimes prompting the use of Luiginary Gravity to align Mario with pipes.
Most connections to areas in the game are depicted as white on the map screen. However, some connections are displayed with the color of the pipe they use.
All Warp Pipes are hard surfaces, so if Luigi swings his Hammer at Mario while standing on one, Mini-Mario is performed.

In Mario & Luigi: Paper Jam, a papercraft Warp Pipe also appears in the game, allowing Mario, Luigi and Paper Mario to access several locations and Toad Villages in the Mushroom Kingdom, like in the first installment. Standard green pipes retain their functionality in the game, usually leading to other areas like the underground section of Doop Doop Dunes where the Pokey duo is fought, or as a shortcut to other places like the Warp Pipe leading to the Mount Brrr Toad Village. As the player progresses in the game, the Warp Pipe in the Lakitu Info Center allows the trio to access the Arcade. However, if the trio is in a mission, the pipes are blocked with an iron plate on top.

Pipes appear as items in Mario Pinball Land. Using one places a blue pipe in between the flippers, preventing Mario from losing a life. However, the pipe disappears after a certain amount of time. It can be obtained by buying it in Toad's tent, hitting a ? Block, or receiving it from a roulette after the player gets a question mark. A pipe also appears temporarily and/or shoots out a Yoshi Egg when the latter is used.

In the Mario vs. Donkey Kong series, pipes are used by the Mini toys to reach different areas within a level. They generally only have two ends, with the exception of Rotate Pipes which may have up to four. Once a Mini enters a pipe, the player must wait for the character to traverse its entire length; the position of a Mini in that pipe is shown by an icon of that Mini moving correspondingly towards the other end of the pipe. Throughout the series, the sound produced by a pipe when entered or exited is recycled from Super Mario 64. Regular Warp Pipes, whose ends are physically interjoined, are first encountered in Mario vs. Donkey Kong 2: March of the Minis where they are green. The game also introduces the aforementioned Rotate Pipes, which can be rotated around 90° at a time. Subsequent games, starting with Mario vs. Donkey Kong: Mini-Land Mayhem!, largely portray interjoined pipes as blue while introducing different types of pipes among the usual ones. Split Pipes are pairs of pipes that are separated between two areas, allowing for a shorter travel time. Corresponding Split Pipes are color-coded yellow, pink, purple, red, cyan, or gray. Movable Pipes are green and work in the same manner as Split Pipes, but can be removed and placed in specific spots within a stage using the touchscreen. In Mario and Donkey Kong: Minis on the Move, pipes work on a similar basis to Split Pipes; if multiple paths diverge from a pipe, the player is given the option to choose a path once the Minis emerge from said pipe.
In Mario vs. Donkey Kong, a pipe is briefly seen in the background when Donkey Kong steals the Mini-Marios in the Mario Toy Factory, where it is used to connect a conveyor belt used to move the toys.
In Mario vs. Donkey Kong 2: March of the Minis, pipes are very common in Pipe Works, the third world in the game. In Mario vs. Donkey Kong: Mini-Land Mayhem!, although pipes can be found in Coaster Hills early on, they are given a focus in Warped Mansion, which debuts Movable Pipes. In Mario vs. Donkey Kong: Tipping Stars, the first interjoined pipe encountered is in Rolling Hills, but the Split Pipes do not appear until Jumpy Jungle, and Movable Pipes until Crumbling Cavern.
The Workshop Store of Mario vs. Donkey Kong: Tipping Stars features multiple design patterns for interjoined pipes that can be unlocked with stars and used in the level builder. The store presents Polka-Dotted Pipes, Pink Pipes, Green Pipes and Gold Pipes. Despite the different aesthetics, they work identically to the blue pipes found in the main campaign.

In the game Captain Rainbow, Warp Pipes appear and are used the same way. They can be green, yellow, or pink and produce the original Super Mario Bros. sound effect when used.

Warp Pipes appear in a variety of events in the Mario & Sonic series. In the Wii version of Mario & Sonic at the Olympic Winter Games, Warp Pipes appear in both the individual and team versions of Dream Ski Cross, where players can ski through them to be transported to the next part of the course, with the pipe entered determining which route the player ends up on. Piranha Plants in Warp Pipes also appear along the course, as well as appearing as obstacles in Dream Ice Hockey. In Dream Figure Skating, several Warp Pipes appear as props in the first segment of the Mario World routine. In Mario & Sonic at the Sochi 2014 Olympic Winter Games, Warp Pipes appear in Groove Pipe Snowboard, where they transport characters to the next section of the course, as well as in Mario's Figure Skating Spectacular, where a Warp Pipe is used to travel to Bowser's Castle segment. In the Nintendo 3DS version of Mario & Sonic at the Rio 2016 Olympic Games, Warp Pipes appear in Golf Plus, where the player can hit their ball into a Warp Pipe, transporting it to another part of the course. A red pipe can allow the player to score a hole in one if they manage to hit their ball into it. Warp Pipes also appear as basic obstacles that block the ball, as well as containing Piranha Plants. In BMX Plus, there are Warp Pipes containing Piranha Plants, also appearing as a regular obstacle.

Warp Pipes reappear in Captain Toad: Treasure Tracker and its Nintendo Switch and Nintendo 3DS ports, although they work differently from Super Mario 3D Land and Super Mario 3D World. In this game, they work similarly to Clear Pipes, but instead of being able to see what is inside them directly, only a silhouette of what is inside is shown. It is also not possible for objects and enemies like spike balls or Fuzzies to be found inside them, unlike Clear Pipes. This game also features purple-colored Warp Pipes.

In Mario Tennis Aces, Luigi makes a Warp Pipe appear out of the ground as part of his Special Shot.

Warp Pipes play a major role in The Super Mario Bros. Movie. Pipes first appear when Mario and Luigi accidentally discover a mysterious pipe while trying to fix a leak underground. However, the two are both sucked in, sending them both through a current that connects between pipes in the Warp Zone, where the two are both accidentally separated, resulting in Mario ending up arriving in the Mushroom Kingdom after emerging from the other end, landing in an area full of Mushroom Platforms, while Luigi instead ends up in the Dark Lands and is captured.
Later, while Toad is escorting Mario through the Mushroom Kingdom, a gag scene takes place where Mario enters and exits a variety of different Warp Pipes, most of them leading to another pipe on the same screen.

Warp Pipes appear in Skylanders: SuperChargers as part of Hammer Slam Bowser's moveset; however, due to an agreement between Nintendo and Activision, they are featured exclusively on the Nintendo versions of the game.
Warp Pipes containing Piranha Plants in them appear as furniture items in the Animal Crossing series. In Animal Crossing: New Horizons in particular, Warp Pipes are empty, but if two are placed on the island, the player can interact with one to warp to the other. Warp Pipes with Piranha Plants emerging out of them appear in the animated mushroom mural wallpaper in the aforementioned game.
In the Super Mario Mash-up in Minecraft, Cauldrons are replaced by Warp Pipes.  Warp Pipes also appear in the premade world, where they are used similarly to the games.
In the Pikmin short "Occupational Hazards," a Red Pikmin exits a green pipe that contained coins. The Red Pikmin also has dust on his face that makes him resemble Mario.
In the Wii U and Switch versions of Lego City Undercover, a Warp Pipe can be built in the Downtown area and when the player jumps on top of it and presses , a new area will be unlocked. When entering and exiting the Warp Pipe the sound effect that is used when Mario uses a Warp Pipe is played.
In the Yoshi's Island Zone DLC level of the Wii U version of Sonic Lost World, blue Warp Pipes can be entered by the player to access sub-areas.
Outside of video games, a Warp Pipe appears as a utility in Nintendo Monopoly, taking the place of the Water Works. It costs $150. There is also an "Advance to Go" ? Block card that mentions jumping into a pipe. In the 2010 version of the game, the Brick Block "Advance to Go" card also refers to a pipe.
In Monopoly Gamer, four Warp Pipe spaces appear on the board. Landing on one lets the player advance to the next Warp Pipe space on the board, collecting any coins on the spaces in between the two Warp Pipe spaces and any coins on the Warp Pipe space on which they land, if this causes the player to pass the GO! space, they collect two additional Coins from the Bank and initiate a Boss Fight.
Besides appearing in Mario & Sonic at the Rio 2016 Olympic Games, the Warp Pipe had a prominent appearance at the Rio 2016 Olympics handover ceremony in real life. Fearing he would not be on time for the Olympics' closing ceremony on the opposite side of the planet, Prime Minister of Japan Shinzo Abe disguised himself as Mario and jumped into a Warp Pipe (which Doraemon had conveniently pulled out of his pocket) amidst commuting businesspeople on the Shibuya crossing. Abe then came out of a Warp Pipe in the center of the Maracanã Stadium. It was then used as a stage prop for the dance act that followed.
In UNO Super Mario, the Reverse card features an image of Mario entering a Warp Pipe.
A large Warp Pipe serves as the main entrance for the Super Nintendo World theme park area as well as a tunnel in the Yoshi's Adventure attraction, with patterns of light appearing along the interior as guests travel through. The tunnel in Yoshi's Adventure features a view into space with Starship Mario.

Pipe:
Swap positions with one of your rivals. The tables turn fast, don't they?

Collectible Treasure No. 27: Ah, the classic pipe. Where will it take us? Sometimes we know, and sometimes we don't. Such is life.

Move to another space. There's no telling where you'll go.

1 - Replaces an instance of "warp tube" in one of Mario's lines from the original English version.