Water Geysers, or simply Geysers, appear in the Super Mario franchise as either obstacles or makeshift temporary platforms which rise up from bodies of water.

Water Geysers appear in Mario Kart: Double Dash!! as course hazards inside the cave of Dino Dino Jungle and before the finish line, where they erupt out of raised cracks in the ground at regular intervals. If a racer drives into one, they are knocked into the air and drop any items they are holding. 

Water Geysers in Mario Kart 7 return in GCN Dino Dino Jungle, where they flip racers over on contact, though racers can also perform a trick off of the geyser spouts. 

Water Geysers in Mario Kart Tour appear in GBA Snow Land T, GBA Yoshi Desert R/T, GCN Dino Dino Jungle, Wii Coconut Mall R/T, 3DS Wario Shipyard T, RMX Vanilla Lake 1, Singapore Speedway 2, Singapore Speedway 3R/T, Yoshi's Island, RMX Donut Plains 1R/T, Rome Avanti 3R/T, and Paris Promenade 3's Do Jump Boosts challenge. They also appear in Bangkok Rush T, spouting out of the Chao Phraya River. In Singapore Speedway 2 and 3R/T and Rome Avanti 3R/T, they have lights of various colors reflected on them, similarly to musical fountains. Unlike their previous appearances, if the player drives into them, they are launched into the air and given a Jump Boost without spinning out or flipping over. Water Geysers underneath manhole covers also appear in all four New York Minute courses and Bangkok Rush 3T. Like in Mario Kart 7, the cracks where the Water Geysers come out of can be used to perform a Jump Boost, while a Jump Boost on the Water Geysers underneath manhole covers can only be performed when the covers are shaking.

Water Geysers appear in version 1.1.0 of Mario Kart Live: Home Circuit in the Geysers environment, this time simply splashing the screen with water and making the player deviate from its trajectory.

Water Geysers appear in Mario Kart 8 Deluxe via the Booster Course Pass, retaining their role in Tour New York Minute and Tour Singapore Speedway. In Tour New York Minute, they once again appear under manhole covers, though they are shorter than their Mario Kart Tour counterparts. Partially-underwater Water Geysers appear in the underwater segment of Yoshi's Island. A Water Geyser also appears in Squeaky Clean Sprint, spouting out of the toilet.

Water Geysers in New Super Mario Bros. U rise out of bottomless pits and other bodies of water, helping players across gaps and reach high places. If Mario jumps into one, he will be able to swim until the geyser pushes him to the top by its force. If Yoshi gets hit by an enemy and runs into a rising Water Geyser, he will stop when he reaches the top. They appear in Above the Cheep Cheep Seas, Urchin Shoals, Waterspout Beach, during the battle with Larry Koopa, and World Coin-7. They are also an integral part in navigating Sparkling Waters. They behave similarly to Sand Geysers, which also appear in the game as well as in New Super Mario Bros. Wii.

Water Geysers in Super Smash Bros. for Wii U and Super Smash Bros. Ultimate appear on the Mushroom Kingdom U stage, where they appear at any point during a match, and a Big Urchin occasionally floats on one, acting as a stage hazard.

Fountains of water similar to Water Geysers appear in Super Princess Peach, where its spouting height can be decreased by the cyclone created by the Joy vibe. Also, geysers from the level Gushin' Geysers in Donkey Kong Country Returns 3D are also similar to Water Geysers as they can propel Donkey Kong and Diddy Kong upwards.