Wigglers are a caterpillar-like species introduced in Super Mario World. They are yellow and move casually while calm, but turn red and angry and run about if jumped on. Wigglers are easily identifiable by their characteristic flower or other plants growing from their heads, which can lose their petals if Wigglers are enraged. Wigglers appear usually as enemies, but some are allies and even playable.
Wigglers have some variants of their own, notably Flutters, which Wigglers seem to transform into Flutters immediately (or temporarily, in some cases such as Mario Power Tennis) without going through a cocoon stage as typical real-world caterpillars do. On the other side, Squigglers appear to be a younger variant of Wiggler suggested by its appearance in Mario & Luigi: Bowser's Inside Story, though this is not confirmed. Larger variants of Wigglers also appear.

Wigglers appear in Super Mario World and return in its remake. They are encountered in Forest of Illusion 1 and Outrageous only. When jumped on, Wigglers turn red and move faster, angrily chasing Mario or Luigi. Wigglers are unaffected by a jump or Cape Spin, but they can be defeated by either a Super Star, a thrown object (such as a Koopa Shell, a Galoomba or a Grab Block), or being eaten by a Yoshi. If defeated, Wigglers collapse, one segment after another. Hitting a Wiggler after the first 1UP in the combo earns Invincible Mario a 2UP instead. There is a glitch involving Wigglers that allows the player to obtain 9,999,990 points very quickly.
Sprites found in prototype revisions of the game show Wigglers with large eyes and pointed hats. Their expressions are shown as being happy or sad, and some segments are spiked.

A large Wiggler is the boss of Tiny-Huge Island in Super Mario 64 and Super Mario 64 DS. After ground-pounding the pool above Wiggler's house atop Tiny Island, Mario can go to Huge Island and enter Wiggler's home through a small gap in the place where he ground-pounded. Wiggler is furious from having a flooded home and feels inexplicably strange ever since he came into possession of a Power Star. After being stomped twice, the Wiggler storms around even more furiously. Contact with Wiggler takes away three units of Mario's health. After a third hit, Wiggler calms down, shrinks, and leaves the Power Star for Mario, being placated by the night sky. The shrunken Wiggler then falls either into the abyss or onto a platform. In the original, the circular parts of Wiggler's body are not actually modeled spheres but flat pictures that constantly face the camera, like other circular objects in the game. In the remake, Wiggler's segments, excluding the head, still use flat textures but have rotating spots superimposed over them (like the features of Bullies and Bob-ombs) that make them look more spherical, and although Wiggler has angry eyes and veins throughout the battle, he becomes the typical red "angry" form before his final hit, after which he becomes happy. Additionally, the remake changes Wiggler in that his head inflicts only two units of damage whilst his other segments do none.
Wigglers appear prominently in the minigame Which Wiggler? in Super Mario 64 DS. The goal is to choose a Wiggler with a correctly matching pattern to the one in the top screen. The Wigglers are sleeping and stationary in the first levels, but some move in later levels. The Wigglers become angry if the incorrect option is selected, and the player is given a penalty of losing ten seconds from the timer.

A Wiggler is the boss of Gelato Beach in Super Mario Sunshine. This Wiggler's actual name is Boss Hana-chan (ボスハナチャン), meaning it is a separate character, but its English name does not make this an apparent distinction.

Wigglers appear in the World-e level Rich with Ropes in Super Mario Advance 4: Super Mario Bros. 3. They are physically and aesthetically identical to their appearance in Super Mario World.

Wigglers appear in New Super Mario Bros. They are encountered in World 4-4 and World 7-3 only. If ground-pounded, a Wiggler flips over temporarily. They can be defeated only from a Shell, a Mega Mushroom, or a Starman. Wigglers return in the Which Wiggler? minigame from Super Mario 64 DS. New Super Mario Bros. introduces a small variant, Squigglers, and World 7-3 has a giant Wiggler with a head and twenty-eight other body segments.

Wigglers appear in Super Mario Galaxy. They are encountered in Honeyhive Galaxy, Beach Bowl Galaxy, Gusty Garden Galaxy, and Gold Leaf Galaxy. Mario can spin a Wiggler or ground-pound nearby it to flip or stun it. A Wiggler is defeated from either a stomp while flipped or being ground pounded on. If the Wiggler either gets back up or is stomped, it turns red, a vein bulges from its head, and the Wiggler begins to chase Mario. The Wiggler cools back down after a few seconds.

Wigglers appear in New Super Mario Bros. Wii. They retain their behavior from the previous game. Wigglers can be defeated by either a POW Block, a Shell, being slid into by Penguin Mario, or contact with Invincible Mario. Wigglers are encountered only in World 5-2. A larger variety, the Big Wiggler, is introduced as an enemy.

Wigglers appear in Super Mario Galaxy 2. They are identical as in Super Mario Galaxy, except some Wigglers start off angry. They are encountered in the Puzzle Plank Galaxy, the Tall Trunk Galaxy, and the Throwback Galaxy. In addition, Big Wigglers appear at the end of Supermassive Galaxy.

Wigglers appear in New Super Mario Bros. 2. They are encountered in World 3-Warp Cannon and World 3-4. Wigglers have the same role as in the predecessors. It is now possible to also defeat them from Raccoon Mario swinging his tail at their heads.

Wigglers, along with their larger variants, appear in New Super Mario Bros. U, New Super Luigi U, and their port. In the former game, they are encountered in Soda Jungle, in Seesaw Bridge, and Wiggler Stampede. In New Super Luigi U, Wigglers are encountered in Wiggler Rodeo. A difference from before is that Wigglers thrust their behinds upwards during the "bah" sections of the music.

Wigglers appear in Super Mario Maker and its port. They function identically as before except in the New Super Mario Bros. U game style, in which they do not move to the beat of the vocals. Wigglers are placeable parts in the Course Maker, where it is possible to place them into Warp Pipes, Bill Blasters, Blocks, Koopa Clown Cars, Lakitu's Clouds, and on tracks. Wigglers can be shook to be transformed into their mad red variant. Applying a Super Mushroom to a Wiggler turns it into a Big Wiggler. If given wings, a Wiggler jumps in a high arc while walking.

Wigglers are not present in Super Mario Odyssey, but they were given a new variant called the Tropical Wiggler, which has the abiltiy to stretch its body around paths. One of the bosses, Mechawiggler, is a giant insectoid robot based on Wigglers.

Wigglers appear in Super Mario Maker 2. They are mostly the same as in Super Mario Maker. Wigglers can be turned into their angry variant or big variant, and can be given wings or a parachute. In the nighttime ground theme, they will float instead of walking on the ground. If one is bounced out of the water from underneath, the game crashes.

A Wiggler known as Racing Wiggler is featured in the Wiggler Races in Super Mario Bros. Wonder. Besides this, Wigglers do not appear, but the game does add Pokipedes, which are Wiggler-like caterpillar enemies that move along rails.

Wigglers (referred to as "Caterpillars") are portrayed as being constantly angry and possessing large fangs in the Super Mario World animated series.
A Caterpillar first appears in "Ghosts 'R' Us," where Yoshi, while traveling with Oogtar the cave boy through the Enchanted Forest, is attacked by a hungry Caterpillar. After running from this Caterpillar, Yoshi, after gaining a pair of Magic Wings, eats it. 
In "Born to Ride," after Yoshi leaves the Dome Castle and just before he meets the Dino Riders, he spots a Caterpillar and swallows it.
Caterpillars are featured prominently in the episode "Party Line," which has a swarm of Caterpillars attacking Dome City while all the cave people are busy gossiping away on their new telephones. Chasing Mario and Luigi up a large tree, this swarm of Caterpillars begins trying to reach and devour them. A Caterpillar, managing to bite Mario's leg, sends him rocketing through the air, hitting a ? Block, which releases a Starman that Luigi grabs. With his new strength, Luigi tosses all the Caterpillars into the tree, which he uses as a catapult to launch the Caterpillars into space and onto a meteor, which they devour. This group of Caterpillars is seen near the end of "Party Line," where they look on as the evil dinosaur, who had been tossed into space by a Starman-powered Mario, soars by.
In the episode "A Little Learning" a Caterpillar can be seen in the apple that Princess Toadstool was about to eat. Yoshi proceeds to quickly eat both the apple and the Caterpillar.
A Caterpillar goes after the Baby Yoshi, who has run away again, in "Mama Luigi." When Luigi stomps the Caterpillar and it gets up, the Caterpillar shows its fangs, and several more come. Yoshi quickly gets hungry and, to Luigi's surprise, devours the Caterpillars.

In Super Mario World: Mario to Yoshi no Bōken Land, Mario and Luigi arrive at the Forest of Illusion, and they notice Wiggler as it pops out of the flower patch to greet them and show them half a fruit. It turns out to be an Apple, and Luigi gives the Wiggler a whole apple in exchange for directions.

In Unjust Desserts, Magikoopa shrinks some Wigglers, and sends them into Yoshi's body after Mario, who encounters them in a passageway. Mario jumps over the Wigglers, but reaches a dead end and is cornered when the Wigglers start backing up. If Mario has picked up a wrench, he can escape from them by using it to open a valve, closing it immediately after jumping through it. Some more Wigglers appear later in the palace garden, after all the creatures that Yoshi and Luigi have eaten are ejected from their bodies.
In Brain Drain, some Wigglers are spotted prowling around the WMUSH radio station after Iggy Koopa takes it over, and they will give chase to Luigi if he steals some Fungus Up cola from the Synapse Switcher. In the book's best ending, Iggy's mind ends up in the body of a Wiggler after he activates the Synapse Switcher without putting a protective helmet on first.

In Mario Roulette, two Wigglers can be seen in the audience when Mario explains how to play the game.

In Super Mario Adventures, Mario and Luigi encounter a Wiggler while hiding from Yoshi (who they think is trying to eat them). When Luigi realizes he is sitting on the Wiggler and panics, Mario jumps on the Wiggler's head, which only makes it angry. The Wiggler starts chasing them until they run into Yoshi, who gobbles it down. Wigglers are also seen among the crowd later in the story when Bowser is ready to marry Princess Toadstool.

Wigglers are referenced in the 1993 Super Mario Bros. film as a taxi cab company called "Wiggler". Later in the film, a brand of alcohol called "Wiggler Malt Liquor" is seen advertised on a neon sign at the Boom Boom Bar.

Wigglers appear in Hotel Mario. They are encountered in Morton's Wood Door Hysteria Hotel. The head is the only segment that cannot damage the player character on contact. Stomping a Wiggler damages it, causing it to grow shorter as the next segment becomes its new head until no segments remain.

Wiggler appears in volume 6 of Super Mario-kun. Kamek and Bowser find an otherwise harmless Wiggler, and they enrage it by removing its flower. After, they plant something on its head, which resembles a Muncher. While enraged, the Wiggler fights Mario, Luigi, and Yoshi. Meanwhile, it transforms into a giant egg that hatches into a moth with a more insect-like appearance. After Yoshi defeats it, he removes the nipper plant from its head, reverting it to normal. The Wiggler, still enraged, pursues Bowser.

Wigglers appear in Super Mario RPG: Legend of the Seven Stars and its remake. Wigglers are six-legged, though their artwork depicts them with eight. In English and other localized releases (except Chinese, Korean, and German), Dr. Topper asks "How many legs does Wiggler have?" in the Trial Course, with "six" being the correct answer. They crawl in and out of tree stumps in the Forest Maze. Jumping on them in the overworld releases coins and causes them to move faster, often releasing a Frog Coin if stomped enough times in a row. Additionally, some Wigglers can be found sleeping in the Forest Maze's caves; jumping on some of these undefeatable Wigglers angers them, making them launch Mario up out of the caves.
In battle, Wigglers attack by slamming into party members, shooting droplets of water at them, or using Sand Storm. When hit with a physical attack, they respond by using the move Vigor Up, raising their own attack power. An unused red palette exists in the original game's data, which may have been intended for when this happens, similar to other games.

A Wiggler that is very different from the normal Wiggler (being a furry, green Wiggler) known as the Fuzzy Wiggler appears in Yoshi's Story. The Fuzzy Wiggler turns blue when stomped on, and once it is defeated, it drops a Melon.

A Wiggler is a non-playable character in Mario Party 2. It owns a Milk Shop in Western Land. Player characters have the option to give 20 Coins to the Wiggler to start a hootenanny, bringing every player to the character.

Wigglers make a few cameos in Mario Party 3. A Wiggler's face is one of the faces to assemble during the minigame Picture Imperfect, and Wigglers themselves are decorations around Woody Woods.

A Wiggler is a non-playable character in Mario Party 5. It is part of the Wiggler Capsule, appearing on a flower when activated and offering the player to go to the Star Space. Accepting the offer causes the Wiggler to become a Flutter and take the player character there. Wiggler Tires, designed after Wiggler's body type, are slow, but easily-controllable tires in Super Duel Mode that allow the kart to turn in place. Super Wiggler Tires, which are blue, trade even more speed for more control. There is also a Wiggler Engine, which also trades speed for more control, and a more extreme variant, the Super Wiggler Engine.

Wigglers are non-playable characters in Mario Party 6. One is part of the same orb, with the same effect as before, though the item has been renamed to Flutter Orb. Wigglers appear in the background of Garden Grab at day and in the Decathlon Park. There is a roller-coaster in Slot Trot based on Wiggler and similarly a merry-go-ground based on it in Stage Fright.

A Wiggler is a non-playable character in Mario Party 7. It is part of the same Flutter Orb and acts the same as before.

A Wiggler makes a minor appearance in Mario Party 8, featured within one of the cards in the minigame Cardiators. It is depicted with an enraged look, and it deals eight points to the opponent.

A Wiggler is a supporting character in the Story Mode of Mario Party DS. It is the proprietor of the Wiggler's Garden board. Wiggler asks the player characters to help defeat the Piranha Plant that has taken over its garden, rewarding them with the first Sky Crystal if accomplished. Wigglers also make cameos, including one's face appearing in the minigame Double Vision, as the Wiggler Friend badge, and as the Wiggler Figure.

A Wiggler is a boss in Mario Party 9. It is encountered in Toad Road, being faced in the minigame Wiggler Bounce, which involves the players trying to defeat Wiggler as it romps around the area. Stomping it on a purple section earns the player one point, and stomping the red section earns the player three. When Wiggler's health reaches its midway point, it gets angry, turns red, and begins to move faster. Additionally, if Bowser's Dice Block lands on a Wiggler in Bowser's Block Battle, Wiggler appears on the arena briefly to wander around. Besides the boss, there is a vehicle based on it, the Wiggler Wagon, and a Constellation based on a Wiggler, titled "Killer Caterpillar." A Wiggler can be seen in the end credits, being shorter than the one in the game.

Wigglers are obstacles in the minigame Quickest Cricket in Mario Party: Island Tour. One appears in the background of the Kamek's Carpet Ride board.

A roller coaster attraction based on a Wiggler appears in Mushroom Park in Mario Party 10.

Wigglers are obstacles in the Leafboard Hoard minigame in Mario Party: Star Rush. They are invulnerable to jumps, both in regular and angry forms, and contact with one flattens and stuns the player for a while. Vehicles based on Wigglers appear in Wheelin' and Wigglin', where players begin with a long vehicle but lose segments of it gradually if enemies flank and collide with them; anyone who concludes with the most segments wins.

The same roller coaster based on Wiggler appears in the returning Mario Party 6 minigame Slot Trot in Mario Party: The Top 100.

Wigglers are non-playable characters in Super Mario Party. One is the main focus of the minigame Don't Wake Wiggler!, where players take turns petting it for points. Wiggler eventually wakes up, costing that player all of their points, and chases everyone except the winning players, who has the most points. A Wiggler can walk across the stage in Rattle and Hmmm.

A green bus resembling the Wiggler from Super Mario Sunshine, known as the Wiggler Wagon, appears in Mario Kart: Double Dash!!. It is a moving obstacle on the Mushroom Bridge and Mushroom City courses.

A Wiggler is a boss in Mario Kart DS. It is raced by Mario at GCN Mushroom Bridge at the end of level 7. In the second lap, steam rises from Wiggler's head to indicate agitation, and Wiggler is even angrier in the third and final lap, turning red, moving faster, and having varied movements, many of which involve skipping shortcuts. Wiggler is the only boss who takes a balloon away from the player character on contact.

Though no regular Wigglers appear, two Big Wigglers are obstacles in Maple Treeway in Mario Kart Wii, and one was raced on Wario's Gold Mine in a tournament held in September of 2010.

Wiggler is an unlockable playable character in Mario Kart 7. It is part of the Cruiser weight class, so its speed, weight, and off-road stats have an above boost rating. Wiggler is unlocked by completing the 150cc Leaf Cup. Wiggler shares a design similar to the one introduced in Mario Power Tennis, but with one fewer body segment, four arms, and two feet; a further discrepancy is Wiggler's artwork being reused from Mario Super Sluggers, depicting it with only one pair of arms and five segments. Its lower pair of arms hold the steering wheel, and its top pair of arms spread out when it gets a speed boost. Wiggler turns red angrily if its kart spins out, such as from contact with an obstacle, and during its losing animation. Besides Wigglers, two Big Wigglers are retained in the returning Wii Maple Treeway.

Although no Wigglers physically appear in Mario Kart 8 or the initial release of Mario Kart 8 Deluxe, these games include the Wild Wiggler ATV, which is designed after a Wiggler.
In the Booster Course Pass DLC, Big Wigglers return in Wii Maple Treeway and Tour Madrid Drive, while one was added to DS Mario Circuit. A silhouette of a Wiggler appears during the staff credits for the Booster Course Pass. A standalone Wiggler became playable in Wave 5 of the Booster Course Pass. Wiggler is a heavyweight driver, sharing statistics with Donkey Kong, Waluigi, and Roy, though much like Metal Mario and Pink Gold Peach, Wiggler has the kart frame size of a middleweight driver. Wiggler possesses the highest speed stat among all medium-sized drivers. Like in Mario Kart 7, Wiggler retains its four-segment body and becomes temporarily angry after getting hit by an item or obstacle or failing a Rocket Start. Unlike in Mario Kart 7, its top pair of arms no longer spread out when it gets a speed boost and are now used to hold items from Item Boxes. Wiggler becomes angry briefly in its anti-gravity trick animation while riding a bike or ATV. It uses an orange Peach Parasol, being one of the few characters to use a recolor of this glider. Wiggler also retains both of its Grand Prix rivals from Mario Kart 7, these being Yoshi and Shy Guy. A CPU controlled Wiggler can use the same kart combination options as Dry Bones, which include the Standard Kart, Steel Driver, Standard Bike, and Standard ATV. Wiggler is sad during its losing animation, but it does not turn red like in Mario Kart 7. Wiggler is the only character to still have two hands on the steering wheel/handlebars when holding an item due to having four arms.

In Mario Kart Tour, Wiggler's emblem appears on a badge for Wiggler Air, and wooden panels featuring the Wiggler's artwork from Super Mario World appear in Ninja Hideaway. Big Wigglers return as stage hazards on Wii Maple Treeway, first appearing in the 2020 Halloween Tour, and also appear as hazard on Madrid Drive 2, where they circle the statue in Plaza Mayor. Big Wigglers also appear as hazards on DS Shroom Ridge T, where it is shown that they give Jump Boosts to drivers who land on top of one from a ramp.
Wiggler returns as a playable character starting from the Pipe Tour along with a themed Mii Racing Suit, having the Giant Banana as its special skill. Its appearance as a driver in this game marks the shortest gap between a driver's appearance in two different Mario Kart games, as it appeared as a playable character in the Booster Course Pass five hours before the Pipe Tour began. A gold variant of Wiggler, referred to as Wiggler (Gold), was added in the 2023 Sundae Tour, and its special skill is the Coin Box. Wiggler was the final returning driver to be added to the game.
A Wiggler Cup is assigned an ID in the internal data of Mario Kart Tour, albeit it never appeared in-game prior to the end of the game's new content.

A Wiggler is a non-playable character in Game & Watch Gallery 4. It is the first opponent fought in the Modern version of Boxing. Wiggler's face turns red for a second whenever it gets hit.

A Wiggler is a boss in Mario & Luigi: Superstar Saga. It is fought at Chucklehuck Woods while Mario and Luigi are looking for Chuckola Fruits. Wiggler is first encountered sticking out of a small hole in the wall. Mario and Luigi jump on its segments, knocking it into the hole. After the Wiggler enters the hole, Mini-Mario tries to enter the hole, but runs away after seeing the enraged Wiggler. The Wiggler then engages Mario and Luigi in a battle. In battle, the Wiggler can be damaged only after all of its segments are attacked, temporarily calming it and allowing Mario and Luigi to damage its head. Any attacks to the head that does not defeat it simply enrages it, causing it to stomp and create a shock wave that can damage Mario and Luigi. Its normal attack is to charge directly ahead, allowing for its segments to be stomped on. Upon being defeated, Wiggler runs away, crying.
In Mario & Luigi: Superstar Saga + Bowser's Minions, Wiggler drops Flower Pants upon defeat.

While normal Wigglers do not physically appear in Mario & Luigi: Partners in Time, Swiggler appears as one of the earlier boss battles, a Shroob-created Wiggler that is fought in the Vim Factory.

In Mario & Luigi: Bowser's Inside Story and Mario & Luigi: Bowser's Inside Story + Bowser Jr.'s Journey, in Dimble Wood, Bowser can find statues that resemble Wigglers. If Bowser punches the statue's segments in the correct order, it will move and clear a path for Bowser to move on.
A large Wiggler appears as the boss of Dimble Woods. This Wiggler works as part of the Wiggler Family farm along with a Squiggler. Bowser first meets him after he pulls up the Giga-carrot, a family heirloom, which is blocking the Wiggler's burrow. The Wiggler is enraged, though Bowser shows indifference and asks the Wiggler if he has a Banzai Bill. Wiggler responds that he does and has tended to it ever since it has fallen in his land. Wiggler, however, then demands that Bowser eat the carrot. As soon as Bowser finishes the carrot, he can choose to save or get the Banzai Bill right now. If he chooses to get the Banzai Bill right now, the Wiggler, who has apparently forgotten his command, yells at Bowser for destroying generations of hard work and care by eating the carrot (even though he was the one who told Bowser to eat the carrot in the first place) and then attacks him.

In battle, Wiggler is able to use an array of different moves this time. The most noticeable attack is seen when Wiggler stands up straight and his front pair of feet morph into hands. He then gets a watering can and waters the ground, making a giant Turnip grow there. Two Leaf Guys then pull up the Turnip and hover above the battle on the top screen, waiting to drop it on Bowser as an attack; Bowser is able to inhale the Leaf Guys and the Turnip will drop.
Wiggler's other attacks include ramming and a body slam, where he rises up and attempts to fall on Bowser. Bowser can block this attack by punching the Wiggler's segments, causing him to back up and lower to the point where Bowser is eventually able to punch his head. If Bowser lets the Wiggler fall, he can defend with his shell and Wiggler will rebound. Like the Wiggler in Mario & Luigi: Superstar Saga, the Wiggler is mad and red by default; Bowser must attack all of his segments before he will be vulnerable to attacks.
Later in the game, a Wiggler appears to block the Bros. route. It tells them that after all that has happened to the wood, it is not letting anyone pass without authorization. When it notices that the Bros. are collecting Attack Pieces, it tells them to 'take responsibility' and collect six. Once they manage to do this, it lets them pass, although it tells them that they have a further responsibility – they must collect the remaining Attack Pieces to obtain a ground-shaking attack.
The first Star Sage and guardian of the first Star Cure, Durmite (later revealed to be Wisdurm), resembles a cross between a blue Birdo and a Wiggler.

A Wiggler, who also refers to himself as a wiggly Wiggler, appears in Mario & Luigi: Dream Team as a boss on the outskirts of Wakeport. He speaks in third person. He first appears when Mario and Luigi arrive at Wakeport during their search for the Ultibed parts in the least-urban area of Wakeport, where he talks about his plans to make a flower garden aloud. Popple is nearby watching Wiggler under the assumption that he was a security guard hired by the collector who lives in the house he is attempting to break into. When Mario and Luigi arrive, Popple enlists the Bros. to help him. Popple enrages Wiggler by calling him a moth and drags the Bros. into a battle against him. Popple assists in the battle, but his actions mostly hinder the Mario Brothers.
After Wiggler is defeated, Popple fights Mario and Luigi. He loses and gets dizzy. After both parts of the battle, Wiggler asks why they fought and restates his intention of making a flower garden while doing so. Popple, realizing this only now, becomes outraged and insults Wiggler's flowers. This angers Wiggler, who proceeds to chase Popple away. Neither character is seen in the game afterward.
At the very start of battle, Popple climbs on top of Wiggler and pulls the flower on his head, turning him hostile, He lines up with one brother, lifts his front half up, then slams it down. This sends out a semicircular shockwave, which will reach the Bro. Wiggler is lined up with first, then arrive at the other Bro. It is avoided by jumping. After several rounds of this, Wiggler flings Popple into the air, eventually landing on the Bro. Wiggler was lined up with last. The targeted Bro. can counter this with his hammer, sending Popple into Wiggler for extra damage.
Wiggler may also do this attack outside of his enraged state several times, standing in-between both Bros. As such, the shockwave reaches both Mario and Luigi at the same time, and must be jumped over simultaneously. Since Popple is not on Wiggler, this attack does not have a second portion.
Wiggler can charge at a Bro. he lines up with beforehand, the Bro. having to jump on or over Wiggler to avoid taking damage. Regardless of the result, Wiggler will come charging back to his starting position from behind the Bros. Popple approaches the next targeted Bro, then notices Wiggler and clings to them. With Popple, it takes longer to start a jump, as though they were carrying the other brother. If the targeted brother is Dizzy, Popple will not cling to them.
On certain turns, Popple will walk up to Wiggler and take a fighting stance. If Mario and Luigi do not damage Popple enough to discourage him, he will attack Wiggler and anger him, prompting a different range of attacks for that turn. The action Wiggler takes depends on what Popple does to Wiggler. Wiggler will re-perform his opening attack if Popple climbs on to Wiggler and pulls the flower on his head again.
If Popple jumps into Wiggler's face, he will skid back a bit, then become angry. He walks backwards off-screen, then returns from the background to chase the trio. Popple runs in between Mario and Luigi. Wiggler will line up with a Bro. then lunge at them, which is avoided by  jumping over or onto Wiggler. While Wiggler chooses which Bro. to attack., Popple may ram that Brother from the side. Popple does not inflict damage, but does cause that Brother to fall over and get trampled by Wiggler unless they jump over or on to Popple. Any Bro. who takes damage is stuck spinning while the remaining participants continue running, meaning they are excluded from further portions of this attack. After several rounds or when both Bros. get hit, the attack will end.

A Wiggler (called Rampaging Wiggler in the Battle Ring) appears again in Mario & Luigi: Paper Jam. He has a similar role to the Wiggler in Paper Mario: Sticker Star, but he does not refer to himself in third person as much as the Wiggler in this game does. Mario and Luigi find Wiggler famished in Gloomy Woods and feed him a berry, replenishing his energy. Starlow explains that Paper Kamek used his magic to create piles of trash to block their path. Wiggler, outraged that someone took advantage of his weak state and made a mess of his forest, becomes mad and smashes the rubbish in front of him. The trio finds Wiggler with no energy again, who cannot move unless they feed him 10 berries. After the brothers feed him the berries, he tells them he has a craving for a dessert. Coincidentally, a yellow Yoshi declares he has found a melon, which Wiggler explains is one of his most favorite desserts, and also refuses to move from the spot he is until they feed him his treat.
The trio asks the Yoshi for the melon, but he says no, rather challenging them to a race with the melon as the winning prize. When Mario, Luigi, and Paper Mario beat him, he hands over the melon, which they feed to Wiggler. Wiggler realizes Paper Kamek left more piles of trash and smashes through them. The three help Wiggler by disabling the electric fences Bowser and his henchmen use to block the path with.
The trio spot Wiggler confronting Paper Kamek, when he uses his magic to make Wiggler big and hostile, and they engage the three in a battle. In battle, Wiggler's POW increases whenever he takes damage. Wiggler attacks by creating a pair of shockwaves that all three characters must jump over, followed by spitting a seed at one bro and/or spitting six seeds at Paper Mario. Wiggler then proceeds to chase one of the bros, who must hammer the Monty Moles and Paper Spear Guys that get in the way. Paper Kamek will eventually attempt to ram into the bro, and if he is hammered he will crash into Wiggler and the attack will end.
Paper Kamek can attack by firing magical blasts at the trio, with different shapes aiming for different characters. Each time a blast is hammered, it will hit Wiggler, and if enough are countered, Wiggler will hit Paper Kamek. Finally, Paper Kamek can create a giant ball for Wiggler to ride on and chase Mario and Luigi with. Paper Mario folds into a boomerang, and Mario and Luigi must throw him at Wiggler's ball several times to destroy it, before he rams into one of the bros. Paper Kamek will eventually slowly fly across the background, and hitting him will instantly destroy Wiggler's ball. 
Once Wiggler's HP has been defeated, Paper Kamek will be able to be attacked normally. Paper Kamek must be defeated for the battle to end, otherwise, he will revive Wiggler with lots of HP after several turns and retreat into the background. If Paper Kamek is defeated while Wiggler is active (through counterattacks), Wiggler will also be instantly defeated. 
After the battle, Paper Kamek flies away while Wiggler apologizes saying he did not know what got into him and passes out, shortly being carried off by Paragoombas. The heroes and Starlow mourn over the loss of Wiggler, but he returns in the form of a butterfly and offers to take them to the peak of Mount Brrr. He remains in this form for the rest of the game.

Wiggler is an unlockable playable character in Mario Power Tennis. Its body is curved upwards and has two gloved hands to hold a tennis racket. It is billed a defensive player. Wiggler has the best reach whilst lacking in speed and power, and its swing ends slowly. Wiggler's power shot is Anger Management, where it becomes mad and spins and hits the ball, while its defensive power shot allows it to morph into a Flutter and fly to get the ball. If Wiggler wins, it becomes a Flutter joyously, but if Wiggler loses, it becomes its angry form and throws a temper tantrum. When presented with a trophy for its trophy sequence, Wiggler trips on a tennis ball by accident, but it does not get mad at Diddy Kong and Luigi, who had presented the trophy to it. Wiggler becomes angry when Diddy falls on to it by accident, proceeding to chase both Luigi and Diddy Kong.

A Wiggler is a boss in Super Princess Peach. It is encountered in Fury Volcano. Wiggler attacks by becoming angry and sending rocks down while running back and forth. Wiggler can be flipped over, exposing its vulnerable spot, if Peach uses Rage to push a spring underneath the platform down. After three hits, the Wiggler spews out damaging smoke from the flower on its head. Wiggler is defeated after five hits in total.

In the Super Smash Bros. series, there are a few items of a Wiggler. In Super Smash Bros. Brawl, Wiggler is featured in the form of a sticker and a trophy, and in The Subspace Emissary, the Wiggler sticker can be used by any fighter to increase their launch resistance by 16 units. In Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS, there is a trophy of both a Wiggler and "Paper Wiggler," depicting its form in the Paper Mario series. In Super Smash Bros. Ultimate, Wiggler appears as a Novice-class support spirit that takes up one support slot, and using it equips the fighter with a Lip's Stick at the start of battle. The Wiggler spirit's puppet fighter is Yoshi and is fought on the Yoshi's Island (Melee) stage.

Wiggler is a playable character in Mario Super Sluggers. It appears similarly as in Mario Power Tennis, having one pair of arms to hold his glove or small baseball bat. Wiggler has above average batting and running speed, but below average pitching and fielding. Wiggler is a team player for Yoshi's team, the Yoshi Eggs. In Challenge Mode, Wiggler angrily races on the track in Yoshi Park, but is calmed when the player's captain changes the direction of the rails to steer Wiggler off of track and calm him down; following this, Wiggler becomes a party member. Wiggler uses Angry Attack as his special ability, which it knocks his opponent in a successful close play. Wiggler shares good chemistry with Blooper, King Boo, and Petey Piranha, and has no bad chemistry with any of the other characters.

A Wiggler appears as a major character in Paper Mario: Sticker Star. He always speaks in third person. In 3-1, Leaflitter Path, he is sleeping and guarding the entrance of his treehouse. Upon being woken up by Mario via the Trumpet thing, he explains his predicament and asks Mario to come over to his house to hear the details. He then exclaims how he would love for Mario to "look at Wiggler's picture diary" and "listen to Wiggler reminisce". However, while doing this, he is captured by Poison Bloopers and subsequently split into pieces by Kamek (or, as he calls, his "children"). It is later revealed that Kamek did this as a means to dissuade Mario from attempting to get the purple Royal Sticker, as Wiggler is the only entity besides a boat that is capable of travelling to the island where the Royal Sticker was located. Wiggler was sleeping outside of his home because he could not find any food. Since the leaves were polluted, he set out to find food. When Mario finds his segments, Wiggler helps him to get to the source of the pollution, which is revealed to be the purple Royal Sticker on Gooper Blooper. He later ages into a Flutter and helps Mario and Kersti get to Bowser's Sky Castle.

A Wiggler can be found walking across the top of a railway tunnel in the Wii U and Nintendo Switch versions of Lego City Undercover.

Wigglers appear in a few games of the Mario Golf series. A Wiggler is the namesake of the Wiggler Park course in Mario Golf: World Tour, also functioning as an obstacle on Hole 1 of the course, where it becomes angry if hit by a ball. Wiggler's name is sometimes displayed on the tournament scoreboard. Wiggler is a playable character of the Power type in Mario Golf: Super Rush, as of version 4.0. Wiggler becomes angry when using his Special Shot or being attacked, powering up his drive.

In the Super Mario Mash-up of Minecraft, Silverfish and Sniffers are replaced by Wigglers.

Wigglers are obtainable assistants in Dr. Mario World. Their stage mode effect is to transform an object (mainly viruses) into a skill charger, where it is 10% at the first level and 50% at the maximum level. Their versus mode effect is to slow down the filling of the skill meters for both players, where the amount of points required to fill them are increased by that listed percentage, rounded down to the nearest round number. The skill meter point increase is 20% at the first level and 40% at the maximum level.

A Wiggler appears in Mario + Rabbids Sparks of Hope on Terra Flora as a boss possessed by Darkmess that chases after the Wiggler Train. Mario and co. must destroy 16 Darkmess eyes on the Wiggler within 12 turns before it destroys the train.

Wiggler graphics exist unused in Super Paper Mario. Its nose is orange rather than brown, making it more so resemble a Flutter. It also wears black shoes.

Wigglers, since their initial incarnation in Super Mario World, are depicted as large yellow caterpillars with large brown noses, puffed out cheeks, a small flower on their heads, wearing shoes. Wigglers also have orange spots scattered throughout their bodies, and the patterns of these orange spots are variable, emphasized in the Super Mario 64 DS minigame Which Wiggler? When Wigglers are angry, they turn red and sometimes lose either their flower petals as in New Super Mario Bros. Wii or even the entire flower as in Super Mario Maker. In other instances, however, such as in Mario & Luigi: Dream Team, the flower is intact. Wigglers in Super Mario World and New Super Mario Bros. games are generally about half Mario's height and have five segments, including the head.
Wigglers have made a few varied appearances, however. Wigglers in the Super Mario World cartoon are shown to be completely red and more hostile than the ones in the game, have sharp teeth, and make realistic wild animal-like noises. The Wiggler in Super Mario 64 is golden-colored and lacks spots, although its appearance in the remake has been revamped to resemble the more common depiction of Wigglers. In Super Mario Sunshine, the Wiggler is also different from the usual ones, being green and much larger than Mario. Finally, some Wigglers have arms to allow them to play baseball as in Mario Super Sluggers, tennis as in Mario Power Tennis, and even boxing in Game & Watch Gallery 4. In these incarnations, they wear gloves instead of shoes. Gloves and shoes, however, may be interchangeable since the Wiggler in Mario & Luigi: Bowser's Inside Story is directly shown transforming his shoes into hands. The size and number of segments can also vary. For instance, the Wiggler in Paper Mario: Sticker Star towers over Mario, an official size chart shows a Wiggler (without the flower) as roughly as tall as Mario, and Wigglers are huge as obstacles in Mario Kart Wii and Mario Kart DS. Wigglers can be shown with many more segments such as in Mario Party 9, in New Super Mario Bros., and in Hotel Mario (though they can be shortened in Hotel Mario). Additionally, the playable Wiggler in the Mario Kart series has four segments rather than the usual five.
Wigglers, though still capable of hurting Mario and his allies, are usually shown to have a calm and gentle disposition by their ambling appearance, but they are easily angered and become aggressive. For instance, the Mario Party DS badge for Wiggler describes them as "easily vexed," and Wiggler's offensive Power Shot in Mario Power Tennis is "Anger Management." While stomping them usually provokes them, Wigglers appear to ignore fireballs and bigger Wigglers ignore Mario completely. Some Wigglers already appear angry such as in Super Mario Galaxy 2, Mario Party Star Rush, Mario Party 8, and Super Mario Maker to serve as faster-moving obstacles for the player. There are some Wigglers, as other common enemies, that can be friendly and even helpful. A number of Wigglers have been allies, and in cases, including in Mario Party DS and Paper Mario: Sticker Star, they have requested Mario and his friends to help. Bowser is not often shown directly commanding Wigglers as he does with Goombas and Koopa Troopas, although in Mario Party 9, Bowser can create a Wiggler for a boss fight and can also spawn a Wiggler in Bowser's Block Battle.
In some games, Wigglers are shown to have a fond talent for gardening and planting vegetables, even to the point of having a family farm grow plants for generations. One instance is in Mario Party DS, where a Wiggler tends a garden that is attacked by a Piranha Plant. In Mario & Luigi: Bowser's Inside Story, one even uses this talent in battle with Bowser. Wigglers can be upset if someone bullies them or ridicules their love for vegetables or gardening, as shown in Mario & Luigi: Dream Team, when Wiggler chases off Popple when he calls Wiggler's intentions for making a flower garden stupid.
Wigglers are frequently encountered in forests and jungles in most games since their debut in Super Mario World (where they are found in the Forest of Illusion), including but not limited to Forest Maze, Soda Jungle, Leaflitter Path, Maple Treeway, and Chucklehuck Woods, though some are also found underground, such as in Tiny-Huge Island in Super Mario 64 and in World 5-2 in New Super Mario Bros. Wii.

Bios of Wiggler often depict them as easygoing creatures, while adding in their proneness to fits of anger. In the few games featuring a playable Wiggler, the stats vary, though Wiggler usually has some power and takes advantage of its size. Wiggler can be slow as in Mario Power Tennis or agile as in Mario Super Sluggers.