The Wiggler Train is a mode of transportation that appears in Mario + Rabbids Sparks of Hope, located in Terra Flora. It is a steam-powered train that has the appearance of a Wiggler, with a steam whistle on the locomotive’s left side resembling those from the Lava Pit in Mario + Rabbids Kingdom Battle. The Chief Engineer of the Wiggler Train is a Rabbid named Sullivan.

When the heroes arrive at Terra Flora, they immediately encounter Sullivan, who has a love affair for JEANIE. He tells the heroes that he can take them to the Darkmess Tentacle on Mt. Spout via Wiggler Train, but the vine bridges are gone because of the drought, thus making the trip to the train unmanageable. The heroes travel to the Everbloom Tree and encounter the planet's Warden, Bea, and a Spark known as Drizzle, with the latter upgrading Beep-0's Wave Power, allowing the heroes to activate the vine bridges. With the vine bridges restored, the heroes, along with Sullivan make it to the Wiggler Train to travel to Mt. Spout.
Along the way, a Wiggler gets enraged and chases after the train, even following them into a Darkmess Tentacle on the tracks. The heroes calm down the Wiggler by destroying Darkmess Eyes on its body. After the battle, the train reaches its destination: Mt. Spout. The train however took damage from the battle with the Wiggler, and is not used for the rest of the story.
After reaching Mt. Spout, Sullivan has a side quest for the heroes known as Sullivan's Despair, in which he must fix the Wiggler Train. He must get the train to the repair station, but three Darkmess Thorns block the path. A Spark known as Oozer Master offers to help, and guides the heroes to the Darkmess Thorns, and using Beep-0's upgraded wave power, they destroy them. The train finally reaches the repair station, but a Darkmess Puddle blocks the path, with a battle known as Hold That Train!. After the battle, the train reaches the repair station, and is fixed by Sullivan, with the help of Oozer Master. After the train is fixed, Sullivan thanks the heroes, and Oozer Master joins them on their adventure.

On Terra Flora we became acquainted with the Terra Flora Railway System, which connects its central station to the base of Mt. Spout, and is run by its charming conductor, Sullivan.Some consider steam trains to be "antiquated", but the train on Terra Flora operates in harmony with its floral surroundings. It is a masterpiece of engineering.