A Wild Ptooie Piranha, also known as Wild Ptooie Piranha Plant, Ptooie Piranha Plant, or Green Piranha Plant, is an enemy in the Yoshi's Island series. These green Piranha Plants shoot spiky objects, often Pokeys, at Yoshi. Wild Ptooie Piranhas are usually depicted with a tongue of the same color as its head.

Wild Ptooie Piranhas are enemies in Super Mario World 2: Yoshi's Island, its remake, and Yoshi's Island DS. Wild Ptooie Piranhas spit three consecutive yellow Needlenoses in the direction of Yoshi, then rest for a brief moment before repeating the attack. The Needlenoses are shot in upward arcs of varying lengths; the first two Needlenoses are always shot at a close distance while the third one is sent further. If Yoshi comes into contact with a Wild Ptooie Piranha, it will act like a regular Wild Piranha, grabbing him in its mouth for a while and causing him to lose Baby Mario. Wild Ptooie Piranhas can be attacked by throwing objects at them, such as eggs or enemies, and require three such attacks to defeat. They turn yellow with the first hit, then red with the second. They can also be defeated instantly by rolling a Chomp Rock onto them. In Yoshi's Island DS only, Wild Ptooie Piranhas can be defeated instantly from one of Baby DK's eggs.
As shown by prototype builds of the game, they were originally intended to spit Spiked Fun Guys.

Wild Ptooie Piranhas are enemies in Yoshi Touch & Go that spit Spiny Eggs, which can be destroyed with an egg or a tap on the Touch Screen.

Wild Ptooie Piranhas reappear in Yoshi's Woolly World and Poochy & Yoshi's Woolly World, acting fairly similarly to previous games. Unlike previously, however, when they are hit with a yarn ball, they do not change to a different color. Their projectiles (Pokey Poms and Shy Guys) also roll along the ground.

Wild Ptooie Piranhas are mentioned briefly by Viridi during Palutena's Guidance dialogue for Piranha Plant in Super Smash Bros. Ultimate. Piranha Plant’s yellow costume also resembles a yellow Wild Ptooie Piranha.