Wisdurm is a boss that appears in Mario & Luigi: Bowser's Inside Story and its 3DS remake, Mario & Luigi: Bowser's Inside Story + Bowser Jr.'s Journey. She is one of the three Star Sages and the guardian of the first Star Cure. Wisdurm's name comes from "wisdom" and "Durmite". She is misnamed in the Prima Strategy Guide's enemy list as "Wise Pillbo". Wisdurm tends to stretch out her words when speaking, and displays a somewhat haughty personality. She is the only Star Sage to be fought as an actual boss; while Chakron is also faced in battle for his Star Cure, he does not attack, as the express purpose of battling him is to break him out of his immobile state. A stronger variant known as Wisdurm X appears in the Gauntlet.
Wisdurm's true name can actually be seen before she formally introduces herself; if the player saves right after facing Bowser in the Toadley Clinic, the Save Block entry mentions that the Mario Bros. must "find Wisdurm in Bowser's body". The remake changes this line to avoid revealing it too early.

Wisdurm initially appears to Mario and Luigi as Durmite, attacking the Bros. within Bowser's body shortly after Bowser ate the giga-carrot she had resided in. After Mario and Luigi defeat her, she shrinks into a much smaller form and runs away.
After the battle against Bowser in his clinic, Dr. Toadley then tells the Bros. of the three Star Cures. The Star Cures are guarded by three Star Sages; Dr. Toadley reveals the first sage's identity to be Durmite, located in Dimble Wood. Bowser overhears this and immediately heads for the forest; Starlow and the Mario Bros. follow him after she realizes Durmite is still in Bowser's body. The group manages to find a pipe in Toad Town that takes them back to the Pipe Yard within Bowser; upon arriving, the Bros. immediately spot Durmite and try to sneak up on her, but the attempt fails as Durmite escapes into the blocked-off Energy Hold.
After gaining access to the Energy Hold and navigating through it, they find Durmite again just as she escapes through a door under a star-shaped gate. Once Mario and Luigi obtain all the pieces of the Star Panel needed to unlock the door, they catch up to Durmite again. Luigi sneaks up on Durmite and tries to catch her with his hat, only for her to get free by burrowing under him and Mario. After several failed attempts, Durmite eventually manages to escape again, spraying gas in Luigi's face as she does.
After the Mario Bros. pursue Durmite far enough, she finally loses patience and yells at the Mario Bros., annoyed by their persistence. Luigi explains their situation, and while Wisdurm expresses sympathy, she also remains skeptical of the Bros. Revealing her true name to be Wisdurm, she questions why she should give the Star Cure to "men who lack any credibility". Luigi tries to reason with her further, but Wisdurm's stubbornness quickly frustrates him, much to her somewhat conflicted amusement. Mario then gets her to agree to a battle for ownership of the Star Cure.
When the Mario Bros. emerge victorious, Wisdurm acknowledges defeat and assumes her true form, which appears more humanoid with pink-and-yellow butterfly wings. Wisdurm then explains that the Sages were awaiting the arrival of heroes on the day of the Dark Star's awakening; when Starlow asks for her help in stopping the Dark Star, she keeps her promise and gives the group her Star Cure. Wisdurm then declares her "role" in events at an end, using her magic to clear two towers of debris blocking a doorway. Before disappearing through it, she asks them to stop following her around, and then wishes them luck in finding the other Star Cures. After this, Mario and Luigi gain access to the Joint Tower.

Wisdurm starts the battle in her small "Durmite" form. While small, her only attack is to use a sticky string to cling to the ceiling and spin as she swings repeatedly at Mario and Luigi, who must counter with the hammer to stop her. If she manages to hit one of them, she swings back before targeting the other one.
In the original game, the battle starts with a meter appearing above her at the top of the bottom screen, where she is depicted in her small form on the "empty" end, with the face of her second form at the other end. The gauge fills up depending on the damage done with each hit she takes, including counterattacks; if the meter is filled at the end of any turn, she transforms into her larger, more powerful form. In Mario & Luigi: Bowser's Inside Story + Bowser Jr.'s Journey, a magical rod serves as the gauge and floats on the top screen, with six segments that change color from blue to pink as it fills; the rod now charges one segment for each hit landed, and once filled it turns red and floats into her grasp before she transforms.
Wisdurm's second form appears similar to her previous fight as Durmite, with her upper body and head now a different shade of pink from the underbelly, and the bow on her head is now yellow; Wisdurm's expression is more neutral, and her eyes have larger irises. She uses her tail to hold the magical rod, which powers her attacks in this form, with each attack using some of the meter. Mario and Luigi can attack her to lower the meter, or attack the rod directly to empty it faster. In the remake, the gauge lowers by one for every three direct hits to Wisdurm or every single hit to the wand. After the meter is completely empty, Wisdurm shrinks back down to her smaller size. Additionally, Wisdurm enters her "taken damage" animation whether the Bros. strike her head or her wand in the original DS version. She only enters this animation if the Bros. attack her directly in the remaster, in which she sadly looks at her magical rod if the Bros. attack it.
In her larger form, Wisdurm has three attacks. She uses her magical rod to create a giant crystal heart into the air, which quickly flashes a picture of one of the Bros. before landing on them. The heart shows its target each time before falling, and Mario and Luigi must deflect it with the hammer; the attack continues until either one of them misses and takes damage or the heart is broken after four hits. Wisdurm reacts to their defense by giggling if the heart damages them; she fumes with each successful deflection, and looks disappointed if the heart is broken. This attack may inflict the Dizzy status effect to Mario or Luigi if they fail to counter it. Wisdurm can also shoot a stream of stars that she sweeps into the Bros., similar to her string attack as Durmite; Mario and Luigi must jump to dodge the attack, and being hit inflicts the DEF-Down status. As they dodge each sweep, she can also use her magic rod to swap the position of the Bros. between sweeps.
She can also use the rod to shrink one of the Bros. and start chasing them with the initial attack being unavoidable; Mario or Luigi continually move away from her in this state (Mario says "Mamma mia!", while Luigi screams), and must use their hammer to hit Wisdurm when she gets close enough. Using the hammer stops that brother in place, with the risk of them being trampled if they do not time the hammer swings properly; each hit does minimal damage to Wisdurm (only one HP per hit in the original, though she can take more than 1 hit point in damage per hit in the 3DS remaster). After 3 hits, she cries and sheds a tear, returning to her position as the target brother returns to normal his size. Wisdurm may use this in the same turn as either of her other attacks, and the amount of hits required to stop her trampling attack increases as the battle progresses.
Like most bosses in Mario & Luigi: Bowser's Inside Story + Bowser Jr.'s Journey, Wisdurm gains the Fury status upon losing half her HP or more, and her attacks become faster, more powerful and more frequent each turn; the status will be applied during her transformation into her second form if the magical rod is charged at that point. In this state, during her star stream attack she may switch Mario and Luigi's positions immediately before the sweeping starts, and her shrinking attack now requires six hits with the hammer to stop it.