The Wood tires (known as the Wooden tires in the British English version) are a set of tires in the Mario Kart series. They are unlockable in Mario Kart 7, available by default in Mario Kart 8, and unlockable again in Mario Kart 8 Deluxe.

The Wood tires provide a good boost to acceleration (tied with the Sponge tires) and a better one to handling (tied with the Slim and the Mushroom tires), but their speed and weight are hindered. Additionally, the Wood tires are the only set of tires to offer a boost to acceleration and handling, but not off-road.
In terms of their hidden stats, the Wood tires offer the best performance while underwater, having the best sea speed (tied with the Roller tires) and sea handling of all tires, and they also offer a strong boost to the air speed and air handling stats, though they have the lowest mini-turbo of all tires in the game (tied with the Slim tires). The Wood tires have the highest stat total of all tires in the game.

The Wood tires also appear in Mario Kart 8 and Mario Kart 8 Deluxe. They are now designed after wagon wheels and are styled similar to the tires used for the Heart Coach and Bloom Coach from Mario Kart: Double Dash!!, and the Daytripper from Mario Kart Wii. The Koopalings and Bowser (and also Bowser Jr. in Mario Kart 8 Deluxe) use these tires whenever they use the Landship kart.
Compared to Mario Kart 7, the Wood tires still boost acceleration at the expense of speed and weight, but not as heavily. They also hinder handling and boost traction. Another notable change is to their hidden stats, where their performance while underwater has been changed from being the best, to being tied with the Slick for the worst in the game. However, their Mini-Turbo is better than before. The Wood tires share their stats with the Sponge and Cushion tires.
In Mario Kart 8 Deluxe. they must now be unlocked by collecting coins. Their stats have also been changed from the original version; they no longer share their stats with the Sponge and Cushion tires, but instead share their stats with the Slim and Crimson Slim tires. They now increase ground and anti-gravity speed along with ground, water and air handling and they do not affect weight and anti-gravity handling. They hinder water and air speed, though the former not as much as in the original version and their miniturbo and acceleration was also lowered. Their traction stat boost however went from being the second best after the Monster tires to tied with the Slim for the second worst, only being better than the Slick tires.

The Wood tires return in Mario Kart Tour, used by the Apple Kart, Daytripper, DK Jumbo, Chrome DK Jumbo, Prancer, Pumpkin Kart, Yeehaw Wagon, and Desert Rose Wagon. On the Apple Kart and DK Jumbo, they have their Mario Kart 7 appearance, while on the Daytripper, Chrome DK Jumbo, Prancer, Pumpkin Kart, Yeehaw Wagon, and Desert Rose Wagon, they take their Mario Kart 8 appearance. The Mario Kart 8 version has several variants; Gray versions are used by the Warship, Gilded Prancer, and Dry Bones Dasher, golden versions are used by the Green Apple Kart and Gold Pumpkin Kart, red, white, and pink versions are used by the Sweet Daytripper, black versions are used by the DK Maximum and Chain Chomp Chariot, and holiday-themed versions are used by the Sleigh Rider and Cheership.

Stat values are out of 6.