The Wooded Kingdom is a region featured in Super Mario Odyssey, and can either be the fourth or the fifth location visited, depending on if the player selects to go here or to the Lake Kingdom after leaving the Sand Kingdom. It is the greater location of Steam Gardens, a large forest area containing several iron structures. This area is also surrounded by large mountains, as well as a geodesic dome. The Steam Gardens is home to the Steam Gardeners, who water and grow flowers throughout the area, especially in their Sky Garden Tower and Secret Flower Field. This area is also home to their prized Soirée Bouquet.
When Mario first visits this kingdom, the Broodals can be found invading the Sky Garden. After traversing through the Iron Road, Mario reaches the top of the Sky Garden Tower, where he encounters Spewart, one of the Broodals. Upon defeating him, Mario will be rewarded with a Multi Moon, which (when collected) causes Torkdrift to appear and wreak havoc in the Secret Flower Field. Mario must then traverse through the area (which is now overrun by Sherms) and reach the entrance to the Secret Flower Field at the far northern reaches of the kingdom. Upon entering the Secret Flower Field, Mario will encounter Torkdrift, who is attempting to steal the flowers. If Mario can successfully defeat Torkdrift, he will be rewarded with another Multi Moon. Collecting this one will restore the Steam Gardens to its former glory, allowing the Steam Gardeners to continue growing flowers and allowing access to more Power Moons. Once Mario collects enough Power Moons, he can access the next kingdom - either the Lake Kingdom (if the player has not yet visited it) or the Cloud Kingdom (if both the Lake and Wooded Kingdoms have been visited).
If Mario falls into the pit below the kingdom's southern region, he lands in the Deep Woods, a dark forest inhabited by a T-Rex. To escape, Mario must plant a seed dispensed by a blue Steam Gardener into one of the glowing pots to grow a beanstalk that leads back to the kingdom's mainland. Throughout the kingdom, there are also many nuts that can be broken to obtain a Power Moon.
This location is potentially based on the Redwood National and State Parks in California. The Steam Gardens' original name, Kogwald, is German for "Cog Woods", and the background features mountains that resemble the Alps. The location also vaguely resembles Canada due to its dense forests and snowy mountains.
The Wooded Kingdom is located south of the Lake Kingdom, southeast of the Sand Kingdom, and southwest of the Cloud Kingdom. The landmass these kingdoms are all located on resembles Pangaea.

The Living Factory
No one knows who built the giant machines dotting this land, but today the Steam Gardeners use them to maintain the greatest flower gardens in the world. The giant dome is climate-controlled and apparently self-sufficient, operating with no maintenance since ancient times.

Guardians of Paradise
Visitors are welcomed not only by the humid air, but worker robots tending the flowers. They're known as Steam Gardeners, longtime residents of the kingdom. You'll be impressed at how long they can work without rest, maintaining themselves perfectly. But beyond being hard workers, the robots love flowers—some grow them right out of their heads! You'll feel the Steam Gardeners' warm hearts, from their flowers and also their internal steam pumps.

Flowers as a Way of Life
While you'll see amazing flowers on any visit, you might be lucky enough to see the famous Steam Gardens Soirée Bouquet. It features giant white flowers that charm all who lay eyes on it. As you might guess from the name, it's by far the most popular bouquet for wedding ceremonies, sought after by wedding planners the world over.

A Deep Wood's Secret
It doesn't appear on any tours, but there is an area untouched by the machines of the Steam Gardens. Here the trees grow quickly, barely allowing any light through. The Steam Gardeners do not speak of it, but rumor has it they discourage visiting this place because of the danger posed by the giant creatures that call it home.

A Growing Walkway
Be sure to try the system of paths called the Flower Road. You'll marvel at plants growing into temporary but walkable bridges. Watch your step, though—nature has no handrails.

Birds NOT of a Feather
Local birds here seem remarkably fond of their mechanical neighbors.

Three Keys to the Kingdom

Smell the flowers. Not that you can miss them, but do savor the scent.
Admire the Steam Gardeners and their impressive devotion to their work.
Appreciate machines and nature living in exquisite harmony.

Map

The Odyssey lands in a densely forested area at the southern end of the map that is devoid of the metallic structures and machinery found throughout the rest of the kingdom. Hint Toad and an outdoor Crazy Cap can be found near the Odyssey's landing site.

This Checkpoint Flag marks the start of the Iron Road, taking Mario to a maze that leads to the Sky Garden Tower. A few Power Moons and regional coins can be found in and around this area. For instance, there is a scarecrow between the iron bars near the entrance Mario must toss Cappy onto to enter a cave, where he must defeat a Fire Bro for a Power Moon. There is a small pool of water near the entrance in which Mario may find a Warp Pipe on the bottom taking him to a bonus area.
In the following missions, the structure of the entrance point changes slightly. In the first mission, it is covered with small puddles of poison. In the second mission, there are Sherms around the entrance. After peace is restored to the kingdom, the entrance is covered in flowers and content Steam Gardeners.

This Checkpoint Flag is roughly halfway across the Iron Road leading to the Sky Garden Tower. After making it to this point, Mario must defeat a Big Poison Piranha Plant for a Power Moon needed to complete this mission and move on to the next. Within the maze, Mario may find a few regional coins as well as a nut containing a Power Moon.

This Checkpoint Flag sits atop the Sky Garden Tower and can be accessed by traveling through its interior. Spewart is fought here for a Multi Moon. Later on, after activating the Wooded Kingdom's Moon Rock, a Yoofoe can be found here. Defeating it yields a Power Moon.

In this area, several Steam Gardeners wait in line to get recharged. If Mario is to Ground Pound the charging area furthest to the right, he obtains a Power Moon. Additionally, Wooded Kingdom Timer Challenge 2 can also be obtained nearby. A Bonneter, a freerunning Koopa Troopa, four blocks containing coins and a Mini Rocket can also be found.

This Checkpoint Flag is located east of the Forest Charging Station, past several Sherms. A pair of binoculars are found here, along with some Rocket Flowers, which can be used to scale the steep slope nearby.

After scaling the slope near the Summit Path checkpoint, this Checkpoint Flag is found, marking the end of the Iron Road. A few Power Moons and regional coins can be found in and around this area. For instance, there is an Uproot which can be captured to break some gray Brick Blocks, two of which have coins in them, and find a secret passage with an 8-bit pipe that leads to a Power Moon. West of here and on a ledge below is a scarecrow. Mario must toss Cappy onto him to scale some platforms to reach to reach another Power Moon.

There is a Checkpoint Flag found right before the hole in the tower that leads into the Secret Flower Field. It is behind a gate. During the objective Path to the Secret Flower Field, there are two Sherms nearby. Mario must capture one of them in order to destroy the rotating defense mechanism over the gate. Its destruction reveals the Power Moon for the objective, and the Moon Pedestal opens the gate permanently. Mario can pass through, reach the Checkpoint Flag, then enter the Secret Flower Field.

This area is reached by stepping on a P Switch near Iron Mountain Path, Station 8 and climbing up the moving platforms. A Checkpoint Flag and four regional coins can be found here, along with a seed pot which leads to a secret area in the clouds if a seed is planted there. Princess Peach, Tiara, and Glydon also appear here, but only after the game is beaten.

This cage can be accessed by entering a painting found in either the Metro Kingdom, the Seaside Kingdom, or the Snow Kingdom, depending on the order the player decides to visit the kingdoms. The cage contains the Secret Path to the Steam Gardens! Power Moon. Two platforms that break when they are stood on are also found, allowing the player to access to the rest of the Wooded Kingdom from the Iron Cage without warping.

Enemies marked with an asterisk (*) are only found in bonus areas.

Road to Sky Garden: The goal is to reach the halfway point of Iron Road and defeat the Poison Piranha Plants found there.
Flower Thieves of Sky Garden: The goal is to reach the top of Sky Garden Tower and defeat Spewart.
Path to the Secret Flower Field: The goal is to reach the entrance of the Secret Flower Field and destroy the cannon found there.
Defend the Secret Flower Field!: The goal is to defeat Torkdrift in the Secret Flower Field.

There are two paintings in this kingdom. One is located near the Forest Charging Station and it can be accessed easily by throwing Cappy to the Scarecrow that activates the Wooded Kingdom Timer Challenge 2 Power Moon, as well as the Scarecrow that activates the Wooded Kingdom Timer Challenge 3 Power Moon. By going to the top of the platforms and then jumping to the surface the player will find a cube-shaped structure in which the painting is. It can take the player to either the Southwestern Floating Island at the Sand Kingdom or the Floating Sky Island at the Luncheon Kingdom, and it can be accessed after defeating Spewart.
The other painting is located inside the Iron Cage, which can only be accessed from a painting at the Metro Kingdom, Snow Kingdom or Seaside Kingdom.

There are a total of 80 Power Moons (74 regular Power Moons and 2 Multi Moons) in the Wooded Kingdom. During the player's first visit to this kingdom, they can collect 47 Power Moons and the 2 Multi Moons, including one from the kingdom's Hint Art. The player can also collect a Power Moon by traveling through a painting in a future kingdom (the Metro Kingdom, Seaside Kingdom, or Snow Kingdom). After the player defeats Bowser in the Moon Kingdom, 4 more Power Moons become available to collect. The Moon Rock will also be available to destroy, causing 22 additional Power Moons to be accessible.
In order to progress to the next kingdom, the player must collect at least 16 Power Moons.

The Wooded Kingdom contains 100 regional coins, which take the form of mechanical nuts.