Wooden cutouts (also known as Boards) are objects designed after various objects and entities that first appear in Super Mario 3D Land.

Boards first appear in Super Mario 3D Land, where they can have the design of a Goomba, a 1-Up Mushroom, or a Warp Pipe (referred to as Goomba Boards, 1-Up Mushroom Boards, and Pipe Boards, respectively) and occasionally give the player items when broken. They block paths but can be jumped on or broken using either Tanooki Mario's tail, a roll, or a Ground Pound. In World 8-Bowser: Part 1, there is a board shaped like Princess Peach at the exit of the castle when Bowser is defeated for the first time, but Bowser shows up and crushes the board. If the player replays the level, only some fragments are there.

A board shaped like Bowser appears in Super Mario 3D World and Super Mario 3D World + Bowser's Fury, in the level, Shadow-Play Alley, which scares Captain Toad. Touching the board causes it to fall and break; Captain Toad gives the player a Green Star afterwards. Another Bowser board appears in Trouble in Shadow-Play Alley as it blocks the player's path.

Multiple Goomba Boards and bush boards appear in Mario Kart 7, in the course Piranha Plant Slide. They can be broken by driving into them, and will respawn some time after. One of the bush boards stands between the fences in an off-road area at the end of the course.

Goomba Boards and bush boards reappear on the course Piranha Plant Slide in Mario Kart 8 and Mario Kart 8 Deluxe, while wooden cutouts from Mario Kart Tour reappear in Tour Paris Promenade, Ninja Hideaway, GBA Boo Lake, Tour Athens Dash, and Wii Daisy Circuit in the Booster Course Pass for the latter game. They have the same function as in Mario Kart 7.

Wooden cutouts reappear in Mario Kart Tour, where they block shortcuts. Wooden cutouts of Piranha Plants appear in GBA Bowser's Castle 2R/T, GCN Yoshi Circuit, Wii Maple Treeway R, 3DS Piranha Plant Slide T, Paris Promenade, Paris Promenade 2, Ninja Hideaway, Paris Promenade 3, and Los Angeles Laps 3R, T, R/T, while Boo versions appear in SNES Ghost Valley 1, SNES Ghost Valley 2, and DS Luigi's Mansion, and the Goomba and bush versions from the previous Mario Kart games reappear on 3DS Piranha Plant Slide, Athens Dash 2, and Madrid Drive 3R. They can be broken by driving through them or using an offensive item. If a player drives through a wooden cutout without using a Mushroom or without being invincible, they spin out and lose coins.
Both the Piranha Plant and Boo versions of the wooden cutout are counted for the "Take out 5 Piranha Plants." challenge.

In volume 45 of Super Mario-kun, a Monty Mole named Choropū the Picasso makes several cardboard cutouts of various items, including an exact recreation of World 2-1. However all the cardboard cutouts collapse at the end of the chapter.

In The Super Mario Bros. Movie, a wooden cutout of Bowser appears in the Training Course. Peach destroys it by kicking through it while demonstrating the course to Mario, who punches through the cutout when he takes the course himself. The cutout resembles Bowser's artwork from the Mario & Luigi series.