"World Clear" is a short musical fanfare composed for Super Mario Bros. by Koji Kondo. It plays whenever the player completes a castle course.

Like in Super Mario Bros., "World Clear" plays in Super Mario Bros. Special whenever the player completes a castle level, though this arrangement is much choppier, is slowed down significantly, and uses harsher chiptune instrumentation than the original.

The Crystal Screen Game & Watch version of Super Mario Bros. features a very short arrangement of "World Clear." 
This arrangement is also used in the special-edition Game & Watch, New Wide Screen Game & Watch, and Mini Classics releases of Super Mario Bros.

Super Mario All-Stars features an enhanced 16-bit arrangement of "World Clear" in Super Mario Bros. and Super Mario Bros.: The Lost Levels whenever the player completes a level.
This arrangement returns for the same purpose in Super Mario All-Stars + Super Mario World and Super Mario All-Stars Limited Edition.

In Super Mario Advance 4: Super Mario Bros. 3, two arrangement of "World Clear" plays when the player defeats Bowser in World 8-Bowser's Castle and in the e-Reader card level Classic World 1-4, a recreation of World 1-4 from Super Mario Bros. The former arrangement has a slower tempo whereas the latter's is much similar to the original.

In New Super Mario Bros., an arrangement of "World Clear" plays after the player completes the final battle with Bowser in World 8-Bowser's Castle.

Pre-release footage of Super Mario Galaxy dating back to E3 2006 shows that collecting a Power Star was originally going to play an arrangement of "World Clear".

In New Super Mario Bros. Wii, an arrangement of "World Clear" plays after the player defeats Giant Bowser in World 8-Bowser's Castle. This arrangement is reused in New Super Mario Bros. 2, New Super Mario Bros. U and New Super Luigi U.

In Super Mario Bros. Wonder, an arrangement of "World Clear" plays after the player defeats Castle Bowser in The Final Battle! Bowser's Rage Stage.

An arrangement of "World Clear" often plays whenever Mario transforms into Super Mario by grabbing a Fire Flower or a Starman.

In Mario Hoops 3-on-3, an abbreviated arrangement of the end of "World Clear" plays whenever the slot machine in Jr. Street has three symbols appear in a row or diagonally.

In Itadaki Street DS, an orchestral arrangement of "World Clear" plays following the conclusion of a Super Mario-themed board.

Like Itadaki Street DS, an orchestral arrangement of "World Clear" plays in Fortune Street following the conclusion of a Super Mario-themed board.