Yamamura is a rock pigeon with Mario's emblem on his breast who appears in Super Mario Maker and its Nintendo Switch sequel, Super Mario Maker 2. He is named after veteran Nintendo level designer Yasuhisa Yamamura. He is a companion of Mary O., Undodog, and Nina, frequently appearing alongside them. According to Mary O, Yamamura is a skilled level creator, and Yamamura has a section that includes ten design tips for making better levels. His way of communication is simple coos, but with words in parentheses translating them. According to official bios, Yamamura likes eating edamame (soybeans in the pod), fried chicken, and taking long walks in the park. Yamamura has also created levels that are part of an officially released set of levels, most of them being edited versions of Mary O.'s courses. 
As part of the New Year's contest for 2016, Yamamura challenged Mary O. to a level creation contest and won, with his 13% Stars per Play compared to Mary O.'s 7% Stars per Play. As his gift, on January 12, 2016, Yamamura is released as a Mystery Mushroom costume, which can be unlocked by clearing the "Cooooo! (Feat. Yamamura)" Event Course.
In the 3DS port, Yamamura plays the role as instructor teaching the player how to build levels in Yamamura's Lessons and even explaining some elements unlocked in Super Mario Challenge Mode. It is also revealed in the port that Mary O. is the apprentice of Yamamura and he sometimes forgets that Mary O. is not a bird. 
In Super Mario Maker 2, Yamamura hosts a game section called Yamamura's Dojo, where he and his assistant Nina provide various tips on building courses.
In addition, Yamamura has a role in Super Mario Maker 2's story mode. He first appears when Mario uses the West Hall Cannon for the first time, giving Mario his first job. His next appearance is when Mario uses the East Hall Doors to get from the second floor to the ground level, where he gives out his second job. Yamamura then appears one final time once the player clears Undodog's second job and inspects the Dry Bones Shell next to Undodog, where Yamamura gives out his third and final job for the Yamamura Shirt.
When story mode and all of Yamamura's jobs are complete, Red Toad builds Mario an ON/OFF Switch that, when hit, opens the topmost window of Peach's Castle. Yamamura then comes out in a similar manner to a cuckoo clock. In addition, he can come out wearing a hardhat.