Yoshis (referred to as Yoshisaurs in the Super Mario World cartoon, and alternatively pluralized as "Yoshies" in Super Mario World 2: Yoshi's Island) are a sapient species of omnivorous dinosaur-like creatures that first appeared in Super Mario World. They later starred in their own series of games. The most well-known Yoshi is green, simply named Yoshi, and an ally of Mario, often aiding Mario or being a protagonist of his own adventures.
Yoshis are known for their long tongues, which they use to grab and eat fruits or enemies. They can lay eggs on their own, sometimes as a result of swallowing an enemy or eating enough food, and they can throw said eggs as an attack. Other eggs hatch into items, and some eggs hatch into Baby Yoshis. In some games, such as the Super Smash Bros. series, Yoshis can hide in eggs for defense (instead of using shields as with most fighters) and roll into eggs for an attack. Yoshis come in a variety of colors, such as red, blue, yellow, etc., although green is the most common color. Yoshis also mostly live on Yoshi's Island; however, they are a widespread species and can live on a number of other islands, such as Lavalava Island and Isle Delfino, as well as the continental Mushroom Kingdom and the neighboring Beanbean Kingdom.

In Super Mario World, Bowser invades Dinosaur Land, and with his Koopalings, trap a number of Yoshis in enchanted eggs, and steal seven unhatched Yoshi Eggs, who then have to be rescued by Mario and Luigi. This is also how the brothers meet Yoshi, whom they befriend very early in the game. Red, Blue, and Yellow Yoshis appear in Star World, exclusively found as Mini-Yoshis, which can grow into adult Yoshis if they eat enough enemies or fruits or a power-up. However, Blue Yoshis can be obtained elsewhere if a player grabs Yoshi's Wings while riding any Yoshi in a level in the SNES version. Eating Koopa shells gives Yoshis different abilities: when eating a Red Shell, Yoshis spit out three fireballs, when eating a Yellow Shell, Yoshis can create sand clouds each time they land on the ground, and when eating a Blue Shell, Yoshis grow wings which allow them to fly. When they hold any shell in their mouths, Red, Blue, and Yellow Yoshis always experience the abilities of Red, Blue and Yellow Shells respectively, in addition to that shell's specific ability if it is of a different color than the Yoshi. Flashing Shells grant all three abilities, while Green Shells yield no extra abilities, and can merely be spat out as a projectile. If a Yoshi holds a shell in its mouth for too long, it swallows it. Yoshis can also eat most enemies, as well as berries that grow on bushes in certain areas; eating ten red berries causes a Yoshi to lay an egg that hatches into a Super Mushroom (or a Fire Flower, Super Star, or Cape Feather, depending on the Yoshi's color in the GBA version), two pink berries will release a Yoshi Cloud, and eating any number of green berries extends the Time Limit. If a Yoshi gets hurt by an enemy, it will drop Mario and run around in a panic until Mario jumps back on its shell.

Yoshis are allies in Super Mario Sunshine. They can ridden by Mario on his quest to recover the Shine Sprites. To get a Yoshi, Mario must first find a Yoshi egg and give it the specific fruit it wants, the Yoshi will then hatch and Mario can ride on it. Depending on the fruit it has eaten, the Yoshi will be one of three colors: orange (if fed a papaya or a pineapple), pink (if fed bananas or a coconut), or purple (if fed a durian or pepper). Even after hatching, a Yoshi can still change colors by eating fruits of a different type. Each color will give a Yoshi the ability to spit juice of the same color (which replaces FLUDD's water tank) that affects enemies by turning them into various types of platforms. The orange juice turns enemies into orange stationary platforms, the pink juice turns them into pink ascending platforms, and the purple juice turns them into purple forward-moving platforms. All three types of platforms disappear after a short amount of time. Unlike FLUDD, Yoshis can also destroy Orange Juice Generators. Yoshis are unlocked by beating Episode 4 of Pinna Park, afterwards Shadow Mario will appear in Delfino Plaza carrying a Yoshi egg.
A Yoshi's juice meter depletes as the Yoshi sprays it, and will drain over time as well; the juice meter can be fully replenished by having the Yoshi eat any fruit, changing the Yoshi's color and the juice's properties depending on the fruit. If a Yoshi runs out of juice, it will turn green and begin to flicker for a few seconds before vanishing altogether; during this time, it can only spit water instead of juice. Landing in sufficiently deep water makes the Yoshi disappear immediately, as they cannot swim in this game.

While Yoshi himself is playable in the main story, up to three additional Yoshis are playable in the multiplayer mode of Super Mario 64 DS. The first player (the host) plays as Yoshi, the second player plays as a Red Yoshi, the third player plays as a Blue Yoshi, and the fourth player plays as a Yellow Yoshi. Each Yoshi has the same abilities and can pick up caps of Mario, Luigi, and Wario to use the abilities of those characters. It is also possible for a Yoshi to eat another Yoshi and spit them out, but the same cannot be done on a Yoshi with a cap. When a Yoshi gets wings, it grows wings out of its body, like in Super Mario World. A Light Blue Yoshi appears in the minigame Tox Box Shuffle, alongside Yoshi himself after enough rounds have passed.

Yoshi, along with Red, Yellow, and Blue Yoshis, appear in the Snowball Slam and Balloon Racing minigames in New Super Mario Bros. In both minigames, player one controls Red Yoshi, player two controls Yoshi, player three controls Yellow Yoshi, and player four controls Blue Yoshi. In the Balloon Racing minigame, both Red and Yellow Yoshi's are colored slightly differently, with their head spines and saddles both matching their shoe color.

Green Yoshis, along with Yellow, Light Blue, and Pink Yoshis appear in New Super Mario Bros. Wii, where they can help the Mario Bros. and the two Toads. Green Yoshis will always appear when playing alone, while the alternate colors only appear in multiplayer, and always depend on the number of players (Yellow for two players, light blue for three players, and pink for four players).
In this game, Yoshis only appear in World 1-3, World 2-5, World 3-2, World 4-5, World 6-4, and World 7-6, they also appear in World Coin-5 of the Coin Battle mode. 
Yoshis can Flutter Jump and stomp enemies that Mario and the others cannot normally defeat with jumps. Like in Super Mario World, their main ability is eating enemies and fruits, but they cannot swallow shelled enemies, and the shells do not give Yoshis any special abilities. Instead, swallowing a Venus Fire Trap gives a Yoshi the ability to spit a fireball, they can also spit fireballs from a Venus Fire Trap or a player, iceballs thrown by an Ice Bro, and hammers thrown by a Hammer Bro. Eating five fruits and leaf-covered Pokeys causes Yoshis to lay eggs that hatch into power-ups for the players to collect. When hurt, the Yoshi drops off its rider and runs around in panic until someone jumps back on its saddle. Unlike in Super Mario World, Yoshis cannot be taken out of the levels in which they are found.
According to unused in-game data, Yoshis cannot be used while underwater, as the player automatically dismounts them if they fall into the water. Yoshis also cannot make Jumbo Rays chirp, cannot sink floating barrels, do not have proper animations for entering horizontal Warp Pipes, cannot hit Flying ? Blocks for items, and cannot use Bouncy Clouds properly; most of these issues are resolved with the Green Yoshis in New Super Mario Bros. U.
Originally, Red and Blue Yoshis were meant to appear, but they were replaced by the Pink and Light Blue Yoshis in the final game.

In New Super Mario Bros. U, only Green Yoshis appear, though they behave identically to the ones in New Super Mario Bros. Wii. Up to four Green Yoshis can appear in multiplayer.
Baby Yoshis also appear on the world map and certain levels and have different colors with special abilities. Bubble Baby Yoshis spit out bubbles that trap enemies when the player shakes their Wii Remote. Balloon Baby Yoshis inflate like a balloon when the Wii Remote is shaken. Glowing Baby Yoshis can illuminate the dark and stun enemies when the Wii Remote is shaken. Baby Yoshis are also vital in a Toad House minigame. A new meter appears when Yoshi eats fruits, which shows how many fruits Yoshi has eaten, effectively replacing the number system. Yoshis also appear in New Super Luigi U with the same role and purpose.
Adult Yoshis and Glowing Baby Yoshis cannot be taken out of levels, but Bubble and Balloon Baby Yoshis can.

Yoshi is a playable character in Super Mario Run, with the ability to Flutter Jump and having an immunity to landing on spikes. In addition, many Yoshi themed items exist in reference to him. Four other colored Yoshis were added in the version 2.0.0 update. Their emblems use an Yoshi's Egg with spots matching the color, but their Goal Pole and Checkpoint Flag color remains orange. The Houses that unlock them are the same as Yoshi's House, but with the egg uses spots of the matching color. Combined with Yoshi, the Yoshis match the five colors of Toads in the game. Yoshis are popular with Toads of their own color. This means that in Toad Rally, when a Yoshi uses a move that makes a Toad cheer for them, that Toad is more likely to be of that color. It even allows Toads of colors that do not normally appear in a course to appear. This effect was also added to Yoshi, corresponding with Green Toads. Blue Yoshi is the only Yoshi available to unlock if players do not have the full version of this game. 

Yoshis return in Super Mario Maker and Super Mario Maker for Nintendo 3DS, appearing in both the Super Mario World and New Super Mario Bros. U styles, where they retain their functions in each style. They are replaced by the Goomba's Shoe in the Super Mario Bros. and Super Mario Bros. 3 styles. In addition, Yoshi (and yarn forms) appears as an unlockable Mystery Mushroom costume in the original game, which can be unlocked either at random upon completion of the 100-Mario Challenge, or by scanning a compatible Yoshi amiibo. The standard Yoshi costume replaces the usual Super Mario Bros. sound effects with sounds from Super Mario World 2: Yoshi's Island while Yarn Yoshis use sound effects from Yoshi's Woolly World.

Yoshis appear in Super Mario Maker 2 with the same appearance and functionality as in Super Mario Maker. Red Yoshis are available as a course element created by applying the Super Mushroom modifier to Yoshi's Egg to create a big red Yoshi's Egg. Rather than using their tongue, they spit fireballs, and if Mario is Fire Mario, Red Yoshi will spit three fireballs at once like in Super Mario World.

In addition to Yoshi himself, Red, Yellow and Light Blue Yoshis appear as playable characters in Super Mario Bros. Wonder. All the Yoshis are classified as "Beginner Characters", allowing them to not take damage when touching enemies although they will still lose a life if falling down abysses like bottomless pits or lava. All the Yoshis retain the ability to flutter jump and eat enemies as well. In multiplayer mode, other players can ride the Yoshis if they are chosen as playable characters, even if they are playing as a Yoshi as well.
As in Super Mario World and the Super Mario Maker series, eating a fire- or bone-based enemy make Yoshis spit out three fireballs or bones, respectively, while they can also spit out watermelon seeds by eating the newly-introduced Melon Piranha Plants, akin to the mechanic of watermelons in Super Mario World 2: Yoshi's Island.

In Nintendo Power's Super Mario Adventures comics, which is based on the Super Mario World video game, Bowser kidnaps various Yoshis from the Yoshi Village, and their leader, Yoshi himself, has to team up with Mario and Luigi to save them and Princess Peach. They later are able to free the Yoshis and have them stampede the wedding between Bowser and the brainwashed Peach, rescuing the princess. Bowser tries to hide in the giant wedding cake, but the Yoshis eat it, forcing him to accept defeat and leave Dinosaur Land.
Their language is shown to consist of nothing but the word "Yoshi", making Yoshis unintelligible to Mario and Luigi.

Yoshi appeared in various issues of the Nintendo-based German Club Nintendo comics. Other Yoshis also appeared in a few issues:

In Yoshi, Mario has to arrange egg halves and enemies to produce Small, Tall, Winged, and Star Yoshis. To get a Small Yoshi, Mario must combine two halves of a Yoshi egg. To get a Tall Yoshi, Mario must have one to four enemies in between the two halves of an egg. To get a Winged Yoshi, Mario must have five or six enemies in between the two halves of an egg. To get a Star Yoshi, Mario must have seven enemies in between the two halves of an egg. If a Small Yoshi hatches, 50 points are awarded. If a Tall Yoshi hatches, 100-250 points are awarded. If a Winged Yoshi hatches, 300-350 points are awarded. If a Star Yoshi hatches, 500 points are awarded.

In Super Mario World 2: Yoshi's Island and the reissue Yoshi's Island: Super Mario Advance 3, Baby Bowser's caretaker, Kamek, predicts that two babies born that morning will spell disaster for the Koopas and attempts to steal them from the stork, who is carrying the babies to their parents. However, he only manages to snag Baby Luigi, while Baby Mario falls to Yoshi's Island and lands unharmed on Yoshi's back.
The infant causes some brief panic among the Yoshis, until Yoshi takes charge and decides to help reunite Mario and Luigi and send them to their parents. The other Yoshis agree to help him transport Baby Mario across Yoshi's Island to Bowser's Castle through use of a relay system. Each Yoshi carries the baby for one level in each world, before passing him on to the next Yoshi in line. Yoshis can eat enemies, turning them into eggs which they can then throw at other enemies and obstacles. Yoshis can also use the Flutter Jump ability, allowing them to prolong their descend and stay airborne temporarily. Yoshis can also transform themselves into various vehicles through the use of morph bubbles, which helps them progress through the island. Later in the game, Yoshi defeats Baby Bowser and forces Kamek to retreat, allowing him to rescue Baby Luigi and free the stork. The Yoshis then let the stork send  Baby Mario and Baby Luigi to their parents.

In Tetris Attack, Bowser curses Yoshi's friends, including a baby Yoshi, forcing him to battle them to break their spell. Baby Yoshis of various colors also appear in the title screen.

In Yoshi's Story, Baby Bowser steals the Super Happy Tree, the source of the island's happiness, and transforms it into a storybook. He curses the Yoshis, making them unable to stop him. However, the curse does not affect six Baby Yoshis in their eggs. When they hatch, the six Baby Yoshis go to find the Super Happy Tree to refill the island's happiness.
More and more worlds become available to the Yoshis as their happiness levels increase by eating fruit. Later on, the Baby Yoshis reach Baby Bowser's Castle where they defeat Baby Bowser and reclaim the Super Happy Tree.
The color of Yoshi used determines their favorite fruits; Green Yoshi favors watermelons, Yellow Yoshi favors bananas, Red Yoshi and Pink Yoshi favor apples and Blue Yoshi and Light Blue Yoshi favor grapes. Both Black Yoshi and White Yoshi favor all fruits equally (barring the Lucky Fruit chosen before a playthrough) while all Yoshi colors favor melons. Additionally, both Black and White Yoshis have faster horizontal flutter jump movement than the other Yoshis can while they are Super Happy.
The Black Yoshi is unlocked after the player finds a black-spotted Giant Egg in the Bone Dragon Pit or Torrential Maze, while the White Yoshi is unlocked after finding a white-spotted Giant Egg in The Tall Tower or Poochy & Nippy.
Each Yoshi also has a different pitch to their voices; Green and Yellow retain a normal pitch, Red and Pink are slightly higher and White Yoshi has the highest pitch, while Blue and Light Blue are slightly lower, and Black Yoshi has the lowest pitched voice. This is not present in the Japanese version of the game.
Brown and Purple Yoshis were originally going to appear in this game, but they  were scrapped.

In Yoshi Touch & Go, the Yoshis have to transport Baby Mario to the stork after Kamek kidnaps Baby Luigi and causes the bird to drop Baby Mario. The color of the Yoshi varies depending on how many coins the player collects while guiding Baby Mario down to the ground. The amount of eggs a Yoshi can carry varies depending on their color: Green Yoshi has 20 eggs, Light Blue Yoshi has 25 eggs, Pink Yoshi has 30 eggs, Blue Yoshi has 35 eggs, Yellow Yoshi has 40 eggs, Red  Yoshi has 45 eggs, Black, Orange, and Purple Yoshi have 50 eggs, and White Yoshi has unlimited eggs. In marathon, a Yoshi's own color changes after every 1,000 yards.

In Yoshi's Island DS, Bowser and Kamek travel back in time to kidnap seven star children in order to use the energy within their bodies to let Bowser take over the world. Without knowing the identity of the children, they plan to steal every single infant in the Mushroom World, but one way or another, the babies escape their grasps. Baby Luigi is successfully captured, but manages to avoid detection for the duration of his time at the castle, and all the other children escape or are cast out by the villains, and help the Yoshis save the rest of the babies.
In the final battle, Yoshi and three others fight Bowser, carrying Baby Mario, Baby Peach, Baby DK and Baby Wario, as Baby Bowser turns traitor when they reach Bowser's Castle. After their defeat, the Koopas return to the future and the babies are brought home by the storks.

A green Baby Yoshi is shown hatching in the end credits for the game, and is revealed to be the seventh star child.

Yoshi's New Island takes place directly after Super Mario World 2: Yoshi's Island and before Yoshi's Island DS, revealing that the stork delivered the babies to the wrong house in the previous game. Kamek then attacks and steals Baby Luigi and the stork, but Baby Mario falls onto Egg Island, another home of the Yoshis. Baby Mario is then found by the Yoshis, who help reunite him with his brother and save the island from Baby Bowser.  During the final boss fight, after Baby Bowser is defeated, adult Bowser travels back in time and must be defeated so that Yoshi can rescue Baby Luigi and the stork.
Gameplay is similar to the original Yoshi's Island, with some new features. Yoshi can now eat Mega Guys and Metal Guys to lay Mega Eggdozers and Metal Eggdozers, respectively. The latter prevents Yoshi from flutter-jumping, but allows him to go undersea. New vehicle transformations also exist, such as Hot-Air Balloon Yoshi, Bobsled Yoshi, and Mine-Cart Yoshi. The Yoshi Star is also a new item that transforms Yoshi into Super Yoshi. Gold Yoshi Stars allow him to run on walls, while Red Yoshi Stars allow Yoshi to fly horizontally like a rocket.

In Yoshi's Woolly World and Poochy & Yoshi's Woolly World, Kamek turns all Yoshis into Wonder Wools, except for Green and Red Yoshi, who hide from the events. The two set out to restore Craft Island to its former appearance. The gameplay is mostly the same as in the other Yoshi games, though instead of laying eggs, Yoshi will lay yarn balls, which act like Yoshi's Eggs. In addition to 10 basic colored Yoshis, there are 58 that have specific design patterns.

In Yoshi's Crafted World, the 8 Yoshis (green, pink, red, orange, yellow, cyan, blue and purple) work together to gather the pieces of the shattered Sundream Stone after the gems were scattered in a fight with Kamek and Baby Bowser. The Yoshis here are similar in terms of abilities to the ones in Yoshi's Woolly World, though they can also flip between 2D and 3D perspectives as well as throw eggs at items in the background and foreground.

In Super Mario RPG: Legend of the Seven Stars Mario and his partners visit Yo'ster Isle, where Yoshis race each other in a competition known as the Mushroom Derby. 

The last winner of the derby is a Yoshi named Boshi who proceeds to name himself leader of Yo'ster Isle and suspends the races. Instead, only one-on-one races between himself and slower Yoshis are allowed, with Yoshi Cookies as the prize. When Mario arrives, he helps Yoshi defeat Boshi in a race, prompting the Yoshis to try and appoint Yoshi as their new leader. Yoshi declines the offer, however, and instead re-opens the Mushroom Derby to everyone, with no Yoshi in charge.
During the game, Yoshi also serves as a translator between Mario and the Yoshis, who speak their own language.

A pudgy Baby Yoshi, named Baby Fat, appears as a inhabitant of the isle that hatches after Mario defeats the cake in Marrymore. It can be fed Yoshi Cookies, and if fed 30 of them, he will become fat. If fed more Yoshi Cookies afterwards, he may give out items by hatching them out of eggs for Mario to collect.

While Yoshi himself appears as a playable character throughout the Super Smash Bros. series, he also has alternate color schemes to reference other members of his species: Red, Blue, Yellow, Pink, Light Blue, Purple, and Black. Some stages and events involve fighting multiple Yoshis. In Super Smash Bros., Yoshi only has three alternate colors alongside his default green color scheme: Red, Light Blue, and Yellow. The first six Yoshi colors are used in the computer-controlled Yoshi team battled during the 1-Player mode, and they all become playable in Super Smash Bros. Melee and onward. Yoshis also make a small appearance in the opening of Super Smash Bros. Melee during a stampede, and as stickers in Super Smash Bros. Brawl. Yoshi gained Purple and Black Yoshi color schemes in Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS / Wii U, although Super Smash Bros. Ultimate replaced his Black Yoshi color scheme with a costume based on the Green Yoshi's appearance in Yoshi's Crafted World. Yoshis also appear during Yoshi's Final Smash in Super Smash Bros. Ultimate, Stampede!, which is based on the Super Smash Bros. Melee opening.

Mario and his partners visit Yoshi's Village on Lavalava Island in Paper Mario. They are there looking for a Star Spirit that Bowser has trapped in a playing card and given to a minion to guard within the island's volcano, but they find they cannot get into the mountain on their own. The Yoshi Village Leader says he will help Mario and the others if they help round up five missing Yoshi Kids. With the help of their Cheep Cheep babysitter, Sushie, Mario and co. soon find the young Yoshis and can continue on with their quest.

When Mario and his current set of partners visit Glitzville in Paper Mario: The Thousand-Year Door, they soon find themselves with custody of a Yoshi's Egg, after its initial owner, Mr. Hoggle, decides against cooking and serving it once he realizes it could move on its own accord. For a while, the egg follows Mario and his partners. Then, after the match with The Iron Adonis Twins, Mario returns to find that the egg has hatched into a Yoshi Kid, the color of whom varies depending on how much time has passed between Mario's acquisition of the egg and its hatching. Mario names the Yoshi, who then travels with him and the other partners for the remainder of the game, before becoming a fighter in the Glitz Pit after the quest is over.
One of the Yoshi's attacks involves summoning a stampede of Green Yoshis to trample the enemy, and another Green Yoshi businessman can be found on the Excess Express.

For the first time in the Super Mario franchise, nonspecific Yoshis appear as enemies in Paper Mario: Color Splash, even though they cannot be targeted or defeated. They are found in the Emerald Circus. When Mario first arrives, the Yoshis are locked in a cage around the corner of the main entrance. If Mario attempts to open the cage, one of the Yoshis will swallow him and spit him out, dealing 5 points of damage to him. After Lemmy flees from the stage, the Yoshis escape from the cage. During the battle on the stage, they will randomly appear out of a curtain to try to eat Mario. Mario has to block their tongues, or they will waste his next card. The Yoshi will then run back into the curtain. Yoshi also appears in the Dark Bloo Inn, albeit invisible at first. If Mario tries to mount him, he runs off to the Emerald Circus, where Mario can talk to him once the Yoshis escape from their cage. A picture at Tangerino Grill appears to be the silhouette of a Toad riding a Yoshi.

Although Yoshis do not appear in Paper Mario: The Origami King, the specifications of the Boot Car mention that it outputs 150 Yoshis, equivalent to the real-life horsepower for motor vehicles.

In Mario & Luigi: Superstar Saga and its remake, Yoshis are shown living in the Beanbean Kingdom. They are found at the Yoshi Theater and Mario and Luigi must find Bean Fruit for seven hungry Yoshis to earn Neon Eggs and ultimately obtain a Beanstar piece. They can be seen in the credits in Yoshi Theater watching the events of the game at the conclusion of the end credits; the remake instead shows a similar scene during a pre-intro cutscene. Regardless of their color, the Yoshis in the original GBA version all have orange or yellow shoes. In the 3DS remake, the Yoshis have their normal shoes, depending on their skin color.

In Mario & Luigi: Partners in Time, the Shroobs drop a Giant Egg on Yoshi's Island. It then becomes a tourist attraction, but later hatches into a Yoshi-like creature known as Yoob, which proceeds to eat every Yoshi with its tongue. A factory in its belly then encases the eaten Yoshis in eggs, so that they will also hatch as Yoobs. The plan is stopped by Yoshi, who is aided by Baby Mario, Baby Luigi, and their adult counterparts, who had both traveled back in time to save Peach and stop the Shroobs. Yoshi discovers a way to escape through Yoob's digestive tract and the four Mario Bros. free the captured and imprisoned Yoshis to help him. They also defeat the guardian of the factory, Sunnycide, by pushing a large rock on him, and once the Yoshis escape and the factory is destroyed, Yoob falls asleep. In international releases, a Black Yoshi appears in the Sunnycide boss battle, the only instance of one appearing, while the original version shows a Yellow Yoshi instead.
After Yoob falls asleep, the Yoshis all think that Baby Bowser rescued them, until the Cobalt Shards send him flying, and Toadbert tells the Yoshis that the Mario Bros. saved them.

Yoshis appear in Mario & Luigi: Dream Team as one of the many species invited to Pi'illo Island. Many Yoshis can be seen in various places such as Pi'illo Castle, Mushrise Park and Wakeport, coming in Green, Red, and Yellow.

In Mario & Luigi: Paper Jam, Yoshis act as minor NPCs throughout the game and can be found in the various Toads Villages throughout the Mushroom Kingdom. One Yoshi appears in the Gloomy Woods Village, and has to be beaten in a footrace to win the melon he has so it can be given to Wiggler. Later on, this Yoshi's brother appears in Mount Brrr, and challenges the trio to a more difficult race, giving them the Speed Gloves as a prize if they win.

Mario & Luigi: Brothership has a Yoshi being featured for a new special attack that Mario can use called Hatch Me if You Can. If Mario and Luigi hit the enemy with the Yoshi's Egg that serves as the central weapon, the Yoshi will pop out of the egg and attack the target with a Ground Pound.

Yoshis appear as a species in certain games of the Mario & Sonic series. In Mario & Sonic at the London 2012 Olympic Games, Dream Equestrian involves players carrying a wagon full of seven color Yoshi eggs, all hatching into Yoshis upon reaching the goal. In the Nintendo 3DS version of Mario & Sonic at the Rio 2016 Olympic Games, five differently colored Yoshis (red, blue, light blue, yellow, and pink) accompany the playable Green Yoshi as his teammates in the Football event, and the Yellow and Light Blue Yoshis operate shops in the Road to Rio mode, with Yellow Yoshi's shop being used to trade apples for Mii outfits, and Light Blue Yoshi's shop being used to trade melons with sports gear. In the Wii U version of Mario & Sonic at the Rio 2016 Olympic Games, Yoshis appear in the Mario League, where Team Mario does not have enough non-guest characters to create three teams of four for any of the events, so Red and Yellow Yoshi are featured alongside Yoshi himself as one of the members of Team Mario, with each Yoshi occupying a team.

In Mario Party, a Blue Yoshi and a Pink Yoshi appear on the board Yoshi's Tropical Island. The Blue Yoshi is separated from the Pink Yoshi, who is trapped in a small island surrounded by whirlpools and the Blue Yoshi is unable to get across. The players must collect the stars to use them as a bridge to allow the Blue Yoshi to go to the island, The game ends when the bridge is formed to allow the Blue Yoshi to reunite with the Pink one. They are also accompanied by the top three winners along with Toad, Boo, Koopa, a Thwomp, and a star, while the fourth place player tries to join them, but is devoured by Bubba.
There is also an unused minigame known as Yoshi's Tongue Meeting, where the players jump atop a Yoshi, either Pink, Yellow, Blue or Red (if the player plays as Yoshi, he just stands in the same position without a rider). The Yoshis have baby Wigglers on their tongues, which extend to the Wigglers' mothers in order to reunite the children with their parents. If it comes too late, the baby will kick its mother into the bush. If it comes too far, both the Wiggler and its baby will simply cry. However, if  is pressed at the right time, the mother and child will reunite and the player wins.
Yoshis reappear in Mario Party Superstars due to the Mario Party board Yoshi's Tropical Island returning. Unlike the original N64 version, there are a few more Yoshis on the board. The Blue Yoshi returns but is moved to Cantaloupe Island and is now seen relaxing on a sliced cantaloupe. A Red Yoshi appears on the central island, replacing the Pink Yoshi (though it now appears on a sliced cantaloupe floating on the water beside Cantaloupe Island) and being surrounded by Cheep Cheeps instead of whirlpools from the original game. A Yellow Yoshi additionally appears on Watermelon Island cheering on top of a sliced big Watermelon.

In Mario Golf, Yellow, Red, and Light-Blue Yoshi can be selected as Yoshi's alternate costume on the character select screen. The player can choose the colors by using , , and , and each Yoshi can be chosen multiple times if there is more than one player.

Yoshis are non-playable characters in Mario Golf: Super Rush. A Pink Yoshi appears in Bonny Greens in the qualifying round. It is then never seen again unless the player plays the qualifying round again.
As of the version 2.0.0 update:

In Mario Tennis, if both players select Yoshi in the Short Game or Tiebreaker Game, the second player will have a Yellow Yoshi as Yoshi's alternate costume. 

In Mario Power Tennis, if players play the doubles tournament and complete the Mushroom Cup and the Flower Cup, they can power up the Rolling Egg Return, making Yoshi change into one of eight colors every time he uses it. The eight colors are Red, Yellow, Green, Light-Blue, Blue, Pink, Black, and White. An image of the Yoshis also appears in the mini-game Artist On the Court on Expert Mode.

Most of the colored Yoshis (excluding the Purple, Orange, and Brown varieties) make an appearance in Mario Tennis Open as downloadable QR characters. The different colors, and their playing types, are listed below.

Colored Yoshis return as alternate colors for Yoshi in Mario Tennis Aces, in the October 2018 update. Unlike in Mario Tennis Open, all Yoshis have the same green tennis racket as Green Yoshi in this game.

In Mario Kart Arcade GP DX, Red and Black Yoshis appear as downloadable color swaps of Yoshi, with their own exclusive Special Items: Egg Bazooka, and Rolling Egg respectively.

In Mario Kart 8 and Mario Kart 8 Deluxe, Yoshis can be seen as spectators jumping and waving in Sweet Sweet Canyon, Mount Wario, GBA Mario Circuit, SNES Donut Plains 3, N64 Yoshi Valley, GCN Yoshi Circuit, Excitebike Arena, GCN Baby Park, and Super Bell Subway. In the latter game, they appear in Merry Mountain, as well as the battle courses Sweet Sweet Kingdom, SNES Battle Course 1, and 3DS Wuhu Town. Some are seen sitting in their seats. Occasionally, some of these Yoshis will hum Totaka's Song. Additionally, three different-colored Yarn Yoshis (green, pink, and light blue) are seen in the background of GBA Ribbon Road.
Also, several differently colored Yoshis are playable as variants of Yoshi, namely Light Blue, Black, Red, Yellow, White, Blue, Pink, and Orange Yoshis. In Mario Kart 8, these variants are unlocked when both DLC packs (The Legend of Zelda × Mario Kart 8 and Animal Crossing × Mario Kart 8) have been purchased, while in Mario Kart 8 Deluxe, they are available from the start in the base game. Red Yoshi is the Staff Ghost for GCN Yoshi Circuit and Orange Yoshi is the Staff Ghost for GBA Cheese Land; additionally, in Mario Kart 8 Deluxe, White Yoshi is the 200cc Staff Ghost for Shy Guy Falls, Yellow Yoshi is the 200cc Staff Ghost for 3DS DK Jungle, and Blue Yoshi is the 200cc Staff Ghost for Super Bell Subway.

In Mario Kart Tour, Yoshis can be seen as spectators on many courses in the game such as GCN Yoshi Circuit.
All of Yoshi's alternate colors from Mario Kart 8 return as playable drivers, separate from Yoshi himself, those being Red, Black, Blue, White, Pink, Orange, Light-blue, and Yellow Yoshi, who were respectively introduced in the 2020 New Year's Tour, 2020 Yoshi Tour, 2021 Yoshi Tour (blue and white), September 2021 Sydney Tour, 2022 Autumn Tour, 2023 Yoshi Tour, and Sunshine Tour and have the Yoshi's Egg (red, orange, light-blue, and yellow), Double Bob-ombs, Dash Ring, Triple Mushrooms, and Heart as their respective special skills. Red, Blue, Pink, Orange and Light-Blue Yoshi are classified as Super drivers while Black and White Yoshi are classified as High-End drivers. Black Yoshi and White Yoshi were originally exclusive to their debut tour and several subsequent tours but became regular High-End drivers starting with the Berlin Tour and September 2021 Sydney Tour, respectively.
Yoshi (Kangaroo) and Yoshi (Gold Egg) take the appearance of a Yellow Yoshi (albeit with orange shoes instead of green).
While most of the colored Yoshis retain a similar coloring as the one seen in Mario Kart 8, Blue Yoshi features a brighter, more saturated blue coloring instead.

In Super Mario Strikers, Yoshis can be seen as spectators in stadiums during gameplay. 

Yoshis return as spectators in Mario Strikers: Battle League. Sometimes, one Yoshi will throw a ? Block to one of the teams' members during gameplay. The player can select up to four Yoshis on the character select screen per team. Different colored Yoshis will be playable based on the corresponding team color, excluding the lime-green team using Green Yoshis and the purple and light-purple teams using Blue Yoshis (though originally Purple Yoshi was seen on the purple team in the overview trailer for the game, but was scrapped in the Mario Strikers: Battle League First Kick pre-release demo and the final game).
Regardless of the color chosen though, all Yoshi colors excel best at Passing and Shooting, while their other stats are low.

Five colored Yoshis (Red, Blue, Yellow, Light Blue, and Pink) along with Yoshi himself appear in Mario Super Sluggers as unlockable characters. Unlike Yoshi himself, however, they do not have Star Skills nor can they be selected as a team captain.

Blue Yoshi and Red Yoshi are non-playable characters in the Dodgeball game in Mario Sports Mix, assisting the blue and red teams on the sidelines, respectively. Yoshi also has three unlockable alternate colors (Light-blue, Yellow, and Pink).

A herd of Yoshis appears in Illumination's The Super Mario Bros. Movie when Mario, Toad, and Peach go on a quest to seek the Kongs' aid to defeat Bowser. Yoshi himself makes a brief appearance in a post-credits scene, where he begins to hatch from his egg. Since no green Yoshis make an appearance during their brief cameo early on, this also appears to foreshadow Yoshi's hatching at the end of the movie.

In the Super Mario All-Stars and Super Mario Advance 4 adaptations of Super Mario Bros. 3, the king of the Pipe Maze is transformed into a Green Yoshi by Ludwig von Koopa (whereas in the NES version of the game, predating Yoshis, the king was transformed into a Piranha Plant).
In Super Mario Chess, Yoshis appear as knights on Mario's team.
In addition, many Yoshi-themed Mario Kart racecourses have appeared: Mario Kart 64 has Yoshi Valley, Mario Kart: Super Circuit has Yoshi Desert, Mario Kart: Double Dash!! has Yoshi Circuit, Mario Kart DS has Yoshi Falls and reuses the GameCube course Yoshi Circuit, Mario Kart Arcade GP 2 has a two-course Yoshi stage, and while it does not introduce a new course, Mario Kart Wii reuses Yoshi Falls from the DS title. Yoshis also spectate a few courses in Mario Kart 8 and Mario Kart 8 Deluxe. Yoshi Valley from Mario Kart 64 and Yoshi Circuit from Mario Kart: Double Dash!! also reappear as retro courses in these two games. A track based on Yoshi's Island appears in both the Mario Kart 8 Deluxe – Booster Course Pass DLC and Mario Kart Tour under the same name, as well as Yoshi Circuit from Mario Kart: Double Dash!!, Yoshi Valley from Mario Kart 64 and Yoshi Desert from Mario Kart: Super Circuit all returning as classic courses.
Although Yoshis do not appear in Super Paper Mario, a stone statue of one appears in Chapter 5: Land of the Cragnons. There is also a Sammer Guy called "Belly of the Yoshi", which is a reference to how Yoshis can eat as much food as they want without getting full. Yoshis were also referenced in Super Mario Galaxy by a planet shaped like a Yoshi's Egg in the Good Egg Galaxy and by a planet shaped like a Yoshi head in the Space Junk Galaxy. Similarly, in Paper Mario: Sticker Star, there is a sphinx in World 2-2 called the Yoshi Sphinx, whose head is shaped exactly like a Yoshi's head.
Mario & Luigi: Bowser's Inside Story and its remake are the only games in the Mario & Luigi series that does not feature Yoshis. Yoshi noises can be found in audio files within the original game's code, but they are unused. It is unknown if Yoshis themselves were going to appear in the game or its remake or it was left over from Partners in Time (as the game's engine was based off this game's).
Also, the Fawful Guy and its dark variant have an attack where a roar very similar to Yoob's can be heard in the original game; a long tongue then snags them, turns them into an egg and throws the egg at their target using a Yoshi's Island-style targeting cursor.
In Fortune Street, many Yoshis can be seen in the background on the Yoshi's Island board. A majority of the Dragon Quest characters refer to them as "dragons."
In the Yoshi's Island Zone DLC level of the Wii U version of Sonic Lost World, all Yoshi Eggs collected by the player will hatch into Yoshis at the end of the level and give three extra lives each.

Yoshis are bipedal non-avian dinosaurs that come in many different colors, with green being the most common. They have large, round snouts with big eyes protruding out of the very tops of their heads, their faces resembling those of Koopa Troopas. Red, stegosaurus-like spines run down their backsides, and they have white underbellies. They are almost always seen wearing large, brightly-colored shoes, which are usually orange or red. They were initially portrayed with somewhat more realistic, therapod dinosaur-like features, such as a hunched-over, birdlike stance, a longer neck, and small hands with three digits. Hands with four digits appear first in the Super Mario World television series from DIC, then in the Japanese commercial of Mario Paint, and in artwork of Super Mario Kart; this has become a common design choice by the end of the 1990s. The design of Yoshis has since changed to make them more anthropomorphic, with upright postures, shorter necks and human-like four digit hands. They usually retain their hunched stance in games where other characters ride them, however. Even though Yoshis are typically portrayed as having no visible teeth and swallowing their enemies whole without chewing them, they have been shown to have a full set of upper and lower teeth since the Super Mario Picture Books published by Shogakukan and written in collaboration with Nintendo, in particular: Super Mario Story Quiz Picture Book 2: Mario's Sports Day, and Super Mario Chie Asobi Ehon ④ Larry No Itazura (Super Mario Wisdom Games Picture Book ④ Larry's Mischief), with the new design retaining them as seen in artwork for Yoshi's Story. The teeth are commonly shown in-game in sprite-based Yoshi platformers while one is flutter jumping. Yoshis were originally conceived of as a type of Koopa, with the saddles on their backs being their shells. Even in the bio of Yoshi on Nintendo's Japanese site, the saddle is considered to be a shell. Although most Yoshis have never been seen without their shoes, the appearance of Boshi in Super Mario RPG: Legend of the Seven Stars confirms that Yoshis have three toes on each foot, and also have white pads on the bottom of their feet, as shown in Super Mario Story Quiz Picture Book 5: Mario's Amusement Park (「スーパーマリオおはなしクイズえほん 5 マリオの ゆうえんち」). Early Yoshi sprites for Super Mario World showed babies that were blob-like in shape and adults with mouths resembling those of the current Baby Yoshis.
A Yoshi's physical appearance changes depending how old they are. For example, in Paper Mario: The Thousand-Year Door, the Yoshi Kid appears much smaller compared to adult Yoshis. He also has hair, while most other Yoshis do not, though this is most likely to differentiate the character as playable. Newly-hatched Baby Yoshis featured in Super Mario World (among other games) are both smaller and also proportioned differently than the adults, with short, stubby bodies lacking in saddles, almost no neck, and a slightly down-curved snout. After eating enough enemies, food or power-ups, these Baby Yoshis will undergo a rapid growth spurt and turn into adults from that point onward.

Yoshis come in a variety of colors. In Super Mario Sunshine, they can change skin color by eating different fruit, while their colors are determined by hatching time in Paper Mario: The Thousand-Year Door. In Yoshi's Woolly World and Poochy & Yoshi's Woolly World, Yoshis come in many themed designs and patterns as opposed to being one color, including designs based on enemies, Nintendo consoles and even other Nintendo characters. Shoe color changes along with skin color: a Green Yoshi has orange shoes, a Red Yoshi has blue shoes, a Yellow Yoshi has green shoes, etc. This shoe color denomination was not standardized until Yoshi's Story.
In Super Mario World, Yoshis have different abilities depending on their color and the Koopa Shell they hold in their mouth. If a Blue Yoshi holds a Koopa Shell of any color, it can temporarily grow wings until it is swallowed or spat out. If a Red Yoshi holds a shell of any color, it can spit it back out as a trio of fireballs. If a Yellow Yoshi holds a shell of any color, it can create sand clouds when landing on the ground until it is swallowed or spat out. Shells of corresponding color can also grant these abilities for a Yoshi of any color. In the SNES version, all Yoshi sprites, excluding the overworld map sprites, have orange arms. This was changed for the GBA port to having the arms match the rest of the body.
The following is all the known colors of Yoshis and the first appearance of said color of Yoshi:

Yoshis are known for their long, chameleon-like tongues that allow them to swallow whatever they eat and turn it into an egg. The eggs can then be thrown at obstacles, enemies, and bosses, while other eggs hatch into items like 1-Up Mushrooms. Yoshis usually swallow items and enemies very quickly, although in Super Mario World, Yoshis takes a while before swallowing Koopa Shells.
Yoshis have large snouts which they can use to sniff out fruit and other collectibles or objects that are buried underground, although this ability is seen only in Yoshi's Story.
Most games show that Yoshis can swim, although how well they swim varies. In Super Mario World, they can swim and dive, although in Super Mario World 2: Yoshi's Island and Yoshi's Island DS, they cannot dive without their submarine form. Yoshi also cannot dive in Super Mario Galaxy 2, although he can swim. In Super Mario Sunshine, Yoshis that live on or around Isle Delfino turn green and disappear if they touch water.
In Super Mario World, when carrying a Yellow Shell in their mouths (or any shell if the Yoshi itself is yellow), the Yoshi becomes heavy and shakes the ground each time it lands after a jump or fall. Yoshis are also one of the first creatures shown performing proper Ground Pounds - a move in which the performer jumps into the air, flips, and then slams into the ground. Yoshis first performed the move in Super Mario World 2: Yoshi's Island. Yoshi's Yoshi Bomb in the Super Smash Bros. series has him ground pound as his down special move. Bowser is shown doing the equivalent of a Ground Pound in Super Mario Bros. 3 (before the debut of Yoshis), and in games since then. Other characters have also been shown Ground Pounding, including Mario himself in titles such as Super Mario 64, Super Mario Sunshine, and various entries in the Mario Party franchise.

The in-game Japanese text of Yoshi's trophy in Super Smash Bros. Melee states that Yoshis are neither male nor female. In the Chef minigame in Game & Watch Gallery 2 and Game & Watch Gallery 4, a Yoshi is shown to hatch other Yoshis without a mate; after being fed long enough, the Yoshi produces an egg that eventually hatches into another Yoshi. The baby then takes its parent's place and proceeds to eat enough food to turn into an adult, eventually producing an egg of its own, which then continues the cycle.
Other sources have shown Yoshis appearing to have a gender. At least one of the Yoshis in Paper Mario refers to his "son," and in Paper Mario: The Thousand-Year Door, the Yoshi who sometimes appears on board the Excess Express expresses his hatred of business trips due to them keeping him away from his "lovely wife". The original Mario Party also features a pair of Yoshis which appear to be one male and one female, although the exact nature of their relationship is not known. Additionally, while Yoshi is rarely referred to with gender-specific pronouns in Japanese, he is consistently referred to with masculine pronouns in translation, with laying eggs being one of his trademarks. This confusion is addressed in Super Smash Bros. Brawl, where Solid Snake assumes that Yoshi is a female because of his egg-laying abilities, only to be corrected by Otacon (both of whom use "it" rather than "he" or "she" while they are talking about Yoshi). It is addressed again in Super Smash Bros. for Wii U and Super Smash Bros. Ultimate, where Viridi remarks that there is nothing natural about a male who lays eggs while Palutena asserts that all living beings have both male and female elements.

Though omnivorous, Yoshis favor fruit, and in Yoshi's Story, they become happy when eating fruit of their own color. Melons are their favorite fruit regardless of color. Some Yoshis, such as Black and White Yoshis, can digest Peppers without hurting themselves. However, in Super Mario Galaxy 2, Yoshi can eat the Dash Pepper, turning him into Dash Yoshi, and causing him to run very fast for a short amount of time. All Yoshis can eat enemies of various kinds, from large Koopa Troopas to plants. Also, if they eat a Bean Fruit, then they will lay a rare Neon Egg, the color of which depends on the Yoshi's own color.

Yoshis are capable of speaking intelligibly, as demonstrated by Yoshi in Super Mario World, Super Mario 64, Tetris Attack, and Super Mario Galaxy 2, as well as other Yoshis in games like Yoshi's Story, Paper Mario, Paper Mario: The Thousand-Year Door, and others. However, other games present Yoshis' speech in parentheses, such as Super Mario RPG: Legend of the Seven Stars (in which Yoshi must translate the speech of other Yoshis for Mario) and the Mario & Luigi series. Others have Yoshis only say the word "Yoshi" followed by a translation of what they are saying in parentheses, such as the Mario Baseball series, Fortune Street, Super Mario Party, and others. The Super Mario Adventures comic jokes that Yoshis only say the word "Yoshi" to communicate. Their language has been referred to as simply "Yoshi".
In some games, particularly older ones, Yoshis produce a sound of two pitch-bended orchestra hits (in Super Mario World, only Yoshi speaks with a text bubble, though this was changed in the Super Mario Advance 2 version). In Yoshi's Story and many later games, the Yoshis are voiced by Nintendo musician Kazumi Totaka, who mutters the word "Yoshi" and other unintelligible sounds, such as "blum" and "ho hup". His voice is sped up to create the baby-like, high-pitched voices of the Yoshis.
Although Baby Yoshis retain their squeaky voices in New Super Mario Bros. U and New Super Luigi U, their speech bubbles once again consist of the word "Yoshi" followed by a translation.

(A family of dinosaurs lives on a peaceful southern island. One day, while they were taking a carefree stroll, a baby fell from the sky. They wanted to bring this baby back to his mother and father. He still has the same appetite to eat anything and everything. If they could turn what they could eat into eggs and throw them, they can defeat the enemies who are trying to harm the baby. Yoshi and his friends gathered together, and started their adventurous journey... Will they be able to protect the baby from Kamek's evil and get back to the home of mom and dad safely?
By acquiring transformation items along the way, Yoshi will be able to transform into various objects and use his special abilities.)