Yoshi's Island is where Yoshi was first discovered (and where his species appears to be native to), hence his name. The island first appears in Super Mario World, where it is part of a larger region called Dinosaur Land.
The name "Yoshi's Island" refers to two separate islands that have different names in the original Japanese versions: the one that first appeared in Super Mario World (ヨースター島とう, Yo'ster Isle), and the one that later appeared in Super Mario World 2: Yoshi's Island (ヨッシーアイランド, Yoshi Island). However, in most localizations, no distinction is made between these two locations.

Yoshi's Island is a location in Super Mario World. It is the first world as well as where Yoshi is first met. It is located at the southwest portion of Dinosaur Land. Yoshi's House is located where Mario and Luigi begin their journey, with the Yellow Switch Palace at the summit of Kappa Mountain to the northwest, and #1 Iggy's Castle to the northeast. After the castle is cleared, a bridge opens to the Donut Plains. The world is grassland-themed and can be re-accessed at any time in the game.
The world contains the following levels:

A new version of Yoshi's Island was introduced in Super Mario World 2: Yoshi's Island, when Baby Mario fell down to the island after the Stork carrying the Mario brothers was attacked by Kamek. Yoshi found lost Baby Mario, and the Yoshis decided to team up and rescue Baby Luigi who got kidnapped by Kamek and send the Stork on its way to the babies' parents. Yoshi and Baby Mario had to search the entire island and find Baby Luigi, fighting bosses along the way. When Baby Luigi is rescued, the Yoshis bid farewell to the babies as the Stork flies away. The worlds are listed as follows:

Although the final world is World 6 (wasteland area; Koopa Kingdom), it technically is not present on Yoshi's Island, as the cutscene where Yoshi clears World 5 shows Yoshi teleporting to the final world.

The events of Tetris Attack take place on the Yoshi's Island from Super Mario World 2: Yoshi's Island.

In Yoshi's Story, Baby Bowser took over the island in an attempt to capture the Super Happy Tree. Baby Bowser placed a spell over all the Baby Yoshis, but six were unaffected (as well as two more later on), as they were unhatched and still in their eggs at the time the spell was cast. The six Yoshis battled their way to Baby Bowser while eating fruit and regained their island by defeating Baby Bowser and breaking the spell to get the island back. Eventually, the situation in the island returned back to normal with the Super Happy Tree left unstolen.

Similar to Yoshi's Story, in Yoshi Topsy-Turvy, the island was locked inside a pop-up book, this time known as the Forbidden Pop-Up Book. A spirit, named Hongo, felt threatened by Bowser and tried to lock him away in the book. The book was too powerful and sucked in all of Yoshi's Island, turning everything into paper and cardboard. Yoshi, assisted by the tiny spirits, traversed the Island to reach Bowser. Upon defeating Bowser, Yoshi and Hongo returned the island to its normal state.

The island reappeared in Yoshi's Island DS, in which many babies ended up there. Kamek started to kidnap babies from all over the world, including Baby Mario, Baby Luigi, and Baby Peach. Luckily, the Stork arrived just in time to rescue Baby Mario and Baby Peach. The Yoshi clan ended up finding the babies again, and decided to help Baby Mario rescue his captive brother, and the rest of the kidnapped babies. Yoshi ended up finding two other captured babies, Baby DK and Baby Wario, who decide to help find the babies. Eventually, it's revealed that the culprit of the kidnapped babies was the Kamek from the future, and adult Bowser, who were after the Star Children. Because of an argument, Baby Bowser ended up helping the other babies in their journey. However, once they reached the end of Bowser's Castle, Baby Bowser betrayed the Yoshi clan and the other babies, but was soon defeated. Bowser soon battled the Yoshis because of what they did to his baby self. However, with the aid of the giant Yoshi eggs, Bowser was also defeated. He was then bloated up in size, where he proceeded to try to destroy the other Yoshis. However, with teamwork between all four of the babies, the Yoshis were able to defeat Bowser, who escaped back to his own time. Baby Luigi was rescued, and peace returned to Yoshi's Island.
The worlds are listed as follows:

Yoshi's Island appears in the intro cutscene of the game, where it houses the Yoshis and the Sundream Stone, which rests at the top of the peak.
In this game, the island has a beach, greenery, and flowers planted at the bottom; rising up to the top, the scenery is more mountainous and in the theme of Autumn with orange and tan coloring. There is a ladder on one side that leads up to the peak.
In the ending cutscene, the Yoshis take the ship they have made with the Sundream Stone's wish granting abilities and return to the island, playing around the stone at the peak as they did in the intro.
In the first level of Yoshi's Crafted World, Rail-Yard Run, a box from a fictional brand of cookies named "Yo'ster Cookies," derived from Yoshi's Island's Japanese name in Super Mario World, is used for part of a building, as shown in the level's flip side.

In Super Mario RPG: Legend of the Seven Stars and its Nintendo Switch remake, it goes by the name Yo’ster Isle (also named Yoshtar Island on one occasion), which is closer to the Japanese name of the Super Mario World rendition of the island. It is an optional area of Mario's world and can be easily bypassed by ignoring the Pipe Vault and moving on to Moleville. The island is home to many Yoshis of various colors. Yoshis find entertainment in the Mushroom Derby, a short race on the island's track. The Yoshis of the island enjoy racing and hold the derby often. The island is also a famous tourist destination; for many years, people from around the world have traveled to Yo’ster Isle to experience its many features. 
Yo’ster Isle is connected to the mainland by a Warp Pipe to the Pipe Vault. The island is rich with vegetation and scattered with trees, with small, open shelters made of wooden poles and covered with leafy roofs. Most of the Yoshis cannot actually speak directly to humans; only Yoshi can communicate with Mario, and acts as translator when talking to the other Yoshis. Besides Yoshi himself, there are several important Yoshis: Boshi, a blue Yoshi known for his unsociable behavior, and the small, green Baby Fat who hatches and grows during the course of the game, though never leaves the small nest. If Mario feeds him enough Cookies, he will eventually be rewarded with a few rare items, including Red Essence.
Boshi is considered the leader of the island after he won the Mushroom Derby and declared himself boss of the Yoshis. However, with the help of Mario, Yoshi can defeat Boshi in another Mushroom Derby race, allowing the Yoshis to live freely again. Although the Yoshis make up the indigenous population, the island is considered a vacation hotspot and Raz and Raini, two Mushroom People from Mushroom Kingdom, spend their honeymoon there.
In the remake, the door to the warp trampoline in Johnny's quarters has a map to Yo’ster Isle hanging above it, indicating that it may have originally been a destination of the Sunken Ship.
Yo’ster Isle is accessed in-game as a distinct area and is considered World 3 in the Shogakukan guide, while it is still considered a part of World 2: Pond to Pipes in the Player's Guide. In the remake, it is in the Yo’ster Island Region.

There are three different stages that have appeared in the Super Smash Bros. series which are named Yoshi's Island. The first one appearing in Super Smash Bros. is based off of Yoshi's Story and renamed Super Happy Tree in Super Smash Bros. Ultimate, the one appearing in Super Smash Bros. Melee is based off of Yoshi's Island from Super Mario World ("Yo'ster Isle" in Japanese), and the one in Super Smash Bros. Brawl is based off of Yoshi's Island from Super Mario World 2: Yoshi's Island ("Yoshi Island" in Japanese).
The connection between Yo'ster Isle and Yoshi Island varies depending on the game: in Melee, the Japanese stage select lists Yoshi Island as the greater location of Yo'ster Isle, while Yoshi's Japanese trophy description in Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS and Wii U lists them separately from each other. In other languages, both islands are named Yoshi's Island and listed singularly in Yoshi's 3DS / Wii U trophy description.
Additionally, Yoshi's Japanese Boxing Ring nickname translates to "Glutton of Yo'ster Isle" (ヨースター島のくいしんぼう) in Japanese, as does his Korean Boxing Ring nickname in Super Smash Bros. Ultimate.

Yoshi's Island is also one of the courses in Mario Golf for the Nintendo 64. It can have winds of up to 32 kilometers per hour and the occasional rain that slows down shots. It is mainly bumpy and has holes in which players need to shoot over the water to avoid an O.B. water hazard penalty. Constant Donkey Kong voices are part of the ambiance. The Nintendo 64 version also features fruits lining the tracks, seemingly inspired by Yoshi's Story. This course was later re-created with the theme of Sparkling Waters in Mario Golf: World Tour under the same name.

During the events of Mario & Luigi: Partners in Time, the island is attacked by Yoob and the Shroobs. After the first two Cobalt Shards are stolen by Baby Bowser, Mario, Luigi, Baby Mario and Baby Luigi visit the island from the time hole in the library on the second floor of Peach's Castle. They meet a reporter called Kylie Koopa and a giant, Yoshi-like monster called Yoob who attacks the town, as well as the young Kamek, who they chase after to the top of the mountain. There were Yoshi statues around the island, and one of them had a hole where the spring water was coming out. Baby Mario drinks this to become Pump Mario, allowing him to spit out water in short spurts.
The young Kamek is initially seen collecting Yoshi Cookies for Baby Bowser, which adult Luigi also collects and feeds Baby Luigi several times in the rest of the game. As the four chase the young Kamek, they must use several techniques like Pump Mario and Spin Jump to make progress on the mountain. At the top of the mountain, the adults find Baby Bowser and ask him for the shards, while the babies eat up all the rest of Baby Bowser's cookies which causes Baby Bowser's anger and a fight with Kamek. After defeating Kamek, the four chase Baby Bowser to a dead end where he eats the shards, but before the four have a chance to get the shards out from the young Bowser's stomach, Yoob appears and eats all of the five characters.
After Sunnycide in Yoob's Belly is defeated, Mario, Luigi, Baby Mario, Baby Luigi, Baby Bowser as well as Toadbert and the Yoshis Yoob has eaten escape from Yoob's digestive tract and land back on the island. Baby Bowser eats more cookies and throws up the Cobalt Shards, which come to life, hit Baby Bowser and fling him off the island, and come into the babies' possession. Yoob falls asleep on the mountain cliff and the player can return to his belly at any point. Toadbert decides to relax on the island until he is hit by Kylie Koopa later in the game.
The music that plays in the village section of the island is a rendition of the title screen music from Super Mario World 2: Yoshi's Island. Despite this, it shares its Japanese name with the Yoshi's Island from Super Mario World.

In Mario and the Incredible Rescue, the Super Mario World rendition of Yoshi's Island once again appears, again by the name Yo’ster Isle. During the adventure, Mario, Luigi and Toad traveled to Yo’ster Isle looking for the next Mushroom. They end up getting attacked by Lakitu and Spinies, but Yoshi arrives and eats Lakitu's Cloud. As such, Mario can get the Mushroom and escape, allowing his party to advance to Moleville.

The Yoshi franchise rendition of Yoshi's Island also appears as a playable game board in Itadaki Street DS and Fortune Street.

In the Wii U version of Sonic Lost World, Yoshi's Island Zone appears as a DLC stage where Sonic must save Yoshis inside Yoshi eggs and bring them to the goal at the end of the level. Many enemies and objects from Super Mario World 2: Yoshi's Island appear here such as Shy Guys, Piranha Plants, Warp Pipes, flowers, and the final goal roulette, while an arrangement of the Flower Garden theme is used as background music. This notwithstanding, the level's look is influenced by Yoshi's Story.

Although Yoshi's Island does not appear in Super Mario Party itself, it is mentioned in Yoshi's bio on the game's official website.

Yoshi's Island can be seen on a map showing areas surrounding the Mushroom Kingdom in The Super Mario Bros. Movie. Later, the island is visited by Mario, Peach, and Toad during their journey to the Jungle Kingdom.

Yoshi's Island, specifically the version featured in Super Mario World 2: Yoshi's Island, appears in Mario Kart 8 Deluxe as a course as part of the fourth wave of the Booster Course Pass DLC. This course was later added to Mario Kart Tour in the 2023 Yoshi Tour.