Yoshi Cookies are the favorite snack of the Yoshis. They are featured as a special item in various games of the Super Mario franchise and also come in a variety of shapes, including flowers, hearts, squares, circles, and even Yoshi's face. Some cookies are chocolate, vanilla, or sugar cookies with icing or jam in their centers, while others carry a checkerboard design.

In their debut title Yoshi's Cookie, a puzzle game, Yoshi Cookies enter from either the top or the side of the screen as Mario, dressed as a baker, pulls a lever. The plot of the game, in a fashion similar to Tetris or Dr. Mario, is to clear them out as Mario continues to fill the screen with more cookies. This is done by pressing the A Button and shifting an entire row of cookies. Once a row is, either horizontally or vertically, filled with the same kind of cookie, it is cleared from the screen. The Yoshi-shaped cookie acted like any kind of cookie.

During development of Super Mario World 2: Yoshi's Island, Yoshi Cookies were considered to make an appearance, but no graphics remain in the final game.

In volume 8 of Super Mario-kun (an adaption of Super Mario Bros. 2), Mario briefly becomes a chef and throws Yoshi Cookies.
During the Super Mario Land 2: 6 Golden Coins arc, which happens after the Super Mario World arc, Yoshi sends Mario some of his island food as thanks for helping him free Dinosaur Land from Bowser. One of the presents is a living Yoshi's head-shaped Yoshi Cookie named Yokkī, who helps him by biting and eating everything it faces.

In Super Mario RPG: Legend of the Seven Stars, Mario and Yoshi are required to bring Yoshi Cookies to Boshi in exchange for a race. Yoshi Cookies can also be used in battle to summon Yoshi, where he will attempt to eat an enemy. If successful, the enemy is transformed into an item, with the item obtained being determined by the type of enemy. If unsuccessful, Yoshi gives the player a Yoshi Candy or a Yoshi-Ade. Bosses and some enemies cannot be eaten. 
A red Yoshi near the GOAL letters can store Cookies for Mario, up to a limit of 200. If the number of cookies goes over the 200 maximum, the Yoshi will eat the rest.

The following is a list of items and the enemies from which they are transformed in both versions of the game.

In Game & Watch Gallery 3, the Modern version of Egg replaces the titular eggs with Yoshi Cookies, which bake while rolling down slopes. The Light Blue Yoshi can grab them at a certain distance, but if he waits too long, they will fall to the ground and be burned.

In Game & Watch Gallery 4, the Modern version of Mario's Cement Factory replaces cement-making with cookie-making. The cookies are from Yoshi's Cookie. If Yoshi gets the Yoshi Cookies from the top sent by Mario, he will instead eat the Yoshi Cookies instead of packaging them. If the Yoshi Cookies are sent to Toad at the right side, he will package them.

In Paper Mario, if Mario gives Tayce T. a Melon and a Cake Mix, she will make a single Yoshi Cookie. It restores fifteen HP and fifteen FP. It can also be sold for twenty coins at most shops, or thirty coins at Yoshi's Cabana.

In Mario Kart: Double Dash!!, the battle arena Cookie Land is shaped like a cookie and has a variety of Yoshi Cookies in the background. This stage reappears in Mario Kart Wii and Mario Kart Tour as a retro stage. Tour updates the Yoshi head cookie to have an open mouth. 
A glider based on Yoshi Cookies, aptly named the Yoshi's Cookies, appears in Mario Kart Tour starting with the 2023 Yoshi Tour.

In Mario & Luigi: Partners in Time in Yoshi's Island of the past, Kamek searches for cookies for Baby Bowser. When Kamek gives them to him, Baby Bowser eats too fast, chokes and drinks some milk. Baby Bowser gets enraged when he finds out that Baby Mario and Baby Luigi ate the cookies while he was talking to Mario and Luigi. Luigi takes four Yoshi Cookies that Kamek dropped and gives one to Baby Luigi immediately. Later, he gives two cookies to Baby Mario and Baby Luigi to calm them down after entering Yoob's Belly. Luigi gave Baby Luigi the last cookie at the very end of the game, in exchange for Baby Luigi's Hammer.

In Yoshi's Woolly World, Yoshi Cookies appear in the level Yoshi and Cookies. There are two types: a type that expands when Yoshi stands on one based on cookie sandwiches, and a grouped, checkered type that appears in the background but collapses when Yoshi goes near them.

Yoshi Cookies also appear in Mario Party: Star Rush as the basis for the minigame Greedy Eats.

A Yoshi Cookie craft can be found on the flip side of the course Poochy's Sweet Run in Yoshi's Crafted World.

The Patissiere Peach levels have timed cookie baking challenges, where Peach must swirl bowls of dough to produce cookies. Most of the cookies' designs are based on those of Yoshi's Cookie while others are new similarly-looking designs.

In Tetris DS, Yoshi Cookies appear in the Puzzle Mode, which is based off of the NES version of Yoshi's Cookie. They appear in the glass tube that forms the bottom and left edges, where they are constantly moving. They also appear on the Touch Screen of the same mode, forming a certain pattern in the background, and also in the foreground, where Yoshi is seen eating a heap of Yoshi cookies in the middle.

In Pikmin 4, five of the six Yoshi Cookies appear as treasures in the Sweet Tooth Series, with the exception of the cookie shaped like Yoshi's head. The treasures are refered to internally with YOSHICOOKIE, solidifying the reference.

Yoshi Cookies were originally going to appear in New Super Mario Bros. Wii, but were scrapped for unknown reasons. They had similar effects in the game as a fruit.